[Page 1]
STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIP ,DRIVING COMPETITIVENESSBusiness at OECD (BIAC)Annual Report 2024

[Page 2]
Established in 1962, Business at OECD (BIAC) is the officially recognized institutional business stakeholder at the OECD. We stand for policies that enable businesses of all sizes to contribute to economic growth, sustainable development, and societal prosperity.Through Business at OECD, national business and employers’ federations representing over 10 million companies provide perspectives to cutting-edge OECD policy debates that shape market-based economies and impact global governance. Our expertise is enriched by the contributions of a wide range of international sector organizations.Business at OECD’s 2024 Annual Consultation with the OECD’s Leadership and Ambassadorsin February 2024 Family Photo.

[Page 3]
LEADERSHIP MESSAGES...............................................................................3Message from the Chair............................................................................................................3Message from the OECD Secretary-General.........................................................................4YEAR HIGHLIGHTS...........................................................................................5Message from the Executive Director....................................................................................5Annual Engagement with the OECD Council and Leadership............................................6Engagement in Substantive OECD Ministerial Discussions.................................................72024 FACTS AND FIGURES.........................................................................10SELECTED HIGHLIGHTS..............................................................................11POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIES.......................................................................13Economic Governance..........................................................................................................15Emerging Markets.................................................................................................................16Environment and Green Growth...........................................................................................17Food, Health and Well-Being...............................................................................................18Innovation and Digital...........................................................................................................19Open Markets........................................................................................................................20Responsible Business............................................................................................................21Skills and Employment..........................................................................................................22Taxation..................................................................................................................................23FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLES..........................................................................24High-Level Statements..........................................................................................................24 Selected Policy Publications.................................................................................................24 Selected Special Events........................................................................................................26WORK WITH OTHER FORA.......................................................................28 B7 Italy.....................................................................................................................................28B20 Brazil................................................................................................................................29BUSINESSAfrica................... ..................................... ......................... ............. 30 ASEAN-BAC...........................................................................................................................30OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024..........................................................31Member Visits........................................................................................................................31Our National Member Organizations..................................................................................33Our Observer Organizations.................................................................................................35Our Associate Expert Groups................................................................................................36Our Friends Program.............................................................................................................38OUR KEY PEOPLE..........................................................................................39Our Executive Board..............................................................................................................39Our Team................................................................................................................................40CONTENTS

[Page 4]
LEADERSHIP MESSAGESFor the business community, the OECD remains an indispensable partner. This is not only due to its membership of market-based economies and its ability to unite government ministries in support of evidence-based policy, but more importantly, because of its unparalleled colla-boration with the private sector through Business at OECD (BIAC). This partnership continues to be the cornerstone of our collective efforts to advance shared priorities and strengthen the global economy.Reflecting on 2024, it is clear that it presented both ongoing challenges and unique opportunities for businesses across OECD countries. Geopolitical tensions, economic volatility, and shifting trade dynamics have tested the resilience of companies and the global economic system. In the face of these uncertainties, Business at OECD has remained a steadfast advocate for policies that support the real economy — driving sustainable growth, job creation, and innovation to benefit society at large.In 2024, our engagement with the OECD has focused on navigating the complexities of an increasingly fragmented global landscape. With rising costs, regulatory challenges, and the need for investments in critical infrastructure, businesses have called for a renewed focus on policies that support resilience, long-term growth, and innovation. We have also continued to push for solutions to address systemic risks in global supply chains, including for energy and food security, as well as policies that foster competition and a fair playing field for all.Amidst these challenges, the OECD has remained a critical platform for driving positive change. Last year, notwithstanding political sentiments favoring autonomy, we saw progress in areas such as digital trade, sustainable finance, and international taxation. Businesses have worked closely with the OECD to shape these discussions, offering practical guidance on key issues like carbon pricing, clean technology, and AI governance, ensuring that policies are forward-thinking and aligned with market realities.Looking ahead, the task for both the OECD and the global business community will be to promote a resilient, open, and market-driven economic environment that is conducive to innovation and private-sector led growth and job creation. As governments continue to tackle climate challenges, economic inequality, and technological disruptions, it will be vital that pri-vate sector voices remain at the heart of policymaking. The OECD’s ability to facilitate dialogue between governments and businesses will be more critical than ever in the pursuit of policies that drive sustainable, innovation-led growth.In the coming year, Business at OECD will continue to be a strong advocate for policies that support competitiveness, open markets, innovation, and long-term prosperity. Together, we will work to ensure that businesses — and the millions of people they employ — can thrive in an evolving global economy.I look forward to continuing to work with all of you as we strengthen our role as the official business voice to the OECD and as a trusted partner in shaping a better future for both bu-siness and society.ANNUAL REPORT 2024 LEADERSHIP MESSAGESCharles (Rick) JohnstonChair Business at OECD (BIAC)Message from the Chair

[Page 5]
Business at OECD is a valuable contributor to our work at the OECD to support better policies for better lives. As the bridge between the OECD and the international business community since 1962, Business at OECD provides key insights on the opportunities and challenges facing businesses today, and the policy environment needed to foster investment, innovation and growth for the future. Our institutional engagement with the business community reflects the OECD’s founding mission, and continuing commitment to individual freedom, democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human rights, market-based economic principles, and open and transparent markets. It also reflects the key role businesses of all sizes have to play in driving strong, sustainable and inclusive economic growth, as well as action on our shared policy challenges, from responding to population aging, to boosting productivity, to optimising the green and digital transformations. In 2024, Business at OECD made significant contributions to high-level OECD events, inclu-ding our Ministerial Council Meeting, Health Ministerial Meeting, Skills Summit, Science and Technology Policy Ministerial Meeting, and Consumer Policy Ministerial Meeting. These engagements provided an effective platform for constructive dialogue between the public and private sectors, ensuring that business perspectives are effectively integrated into policymaking processes, and helping ensure a sound policy environment for innovation and investment. This year also laid a strong foundation for our ongoing collaboration in support of competitive and open markets and AI governance and innovation. Business at OECD emphasised the importance of reinforcing the competitiveness of our market-based democracies and addressing global challenges through effective multilateralism at the annual Liaison Committee Meeting with the OECD. They also brought together AI experts and global leaders to discuss technology governance and explore the OECD’s role in driving innovation during the OECD Global Strategy Group Meeting on Futures of AI Governance. As the OECD continues to enhance its global engagement to address the challenges of a challenging geopolitical environment, we appreciate Business at OECD’s efforts to complement this with its own outreach. Business at OECD signed a Memorandum of Understanding with BUSINESSAfrica, marking a significant step in fostering partnerships with key stakeholders in the African continent, while the establishment of a new Business at OECD Contact Group with Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) in connection with the OECD LAC Regional Programme can strengthen collaboration and dialogue in a vital and dynamic region. These initiatives un-derscore the OECD’s commitment to leveraging business as a critical driver of international co-operation and sustainable economic progress. As we look ahead to 2025, we look forward to continuing our close work with Business at OECD to help inform and shape policy discussions in the OECD for a more prosperous, inno-vative, sustainable and inclusive future.ANNUAL REPORT 2024LEADERSHIP MESSAGESMathias CormannSecretary-General Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Message from the OECD Secretary-General

[Page 6]
YEAR HIGHLIGHTSAs we reflect on an eventful and productive 2024, we are reminded of the strength of our colla-boration and the milestones we achieved together throughout the year thanks to the active contribution of our members.In 2024, Business at OECD (BIAC) expanded its global network to include additional business organizations from non-OECD countries as well as key international sector organizations. Our global outreach grew further with the establishment of our new Latin America and the Caribbean Contact Group and the signing of an MoU with BUSINESSAfrica, which complements the MoU we previously signed with ASEAN-BAC. We value our cooperation with the OECD as a trusted partner and the official voice of business, informing the OECD’s policy discussions and processes. Given the geopolitical tensions the world is facing, the OECD’s mission as a pathfinder and promoter of multilateralism, democratic values, rule of law, and private sector-led sustainable economic growth is more important than ever. As increasing the competitiveness of our economies remains high on our agenda, we are parti-cularly supportive of the new cross-cutting OECD initiative on measuring the drivers and barriers for growth and competitiveness, which we had consistently called for. We look forward to working with the OECD on addressing the barriers to competitiveness to create a business environment that is conducive to private sector-led growth and job creation. Business connects people across the world, enabling mutual benefits for more prosperous li-ving standards across regions. We look forward to our cooperation with the OECD in 2025 and will continue to emphasize the importance of dialogue, evidence-based policies, and a level playing field to uphold competition and competitiveness for business, which are indispensable for our societies to thrive and address global challenges.We would like to thank you for your cooperation and continued engagement throughout the year. We look forward to working with the OECD in 2025 to represent the views of our global network, representing companies across sectors, both large and small, to ensure that practical business considerations are reflected in OECD policy advice.ANNUAL REPORT 2024 YEAR HIGHLIGHTSMessage from the Executive DirectorHanni RosenbaumExecutive DirectorBusiness at OECD (BIAC)

[Page 7]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024YEAR HIGHLIGHTSAnnual Engagement with the OECD Council and LeadershipAnnual Consultation with OECD Ambassadors and LeadershipOECD Ministerial CouncilMeeting In February, business leaders from our global network presented the priorities for Charting the Course for Competitiveness to the OECD Secretary-General, leadership and Ambas -sadors during our Annual Consultation with the OECD Council and Leadership.Business at OECD called on the OECD to ur -gently reinforce the competitiveness of our market-based democracies. Led by our Chair, Rick Johnston, our delegation underlined our members’ joint priorities for OECD policyma -king, stressing the need for the Organization to put a clearer spotlight on the cost and ease of doing business in its member countries.Keynote speakers, including our Executive Board Member Emma Marcegaglia and our SMEs and Entrepreneurship Committee Chair Patrik Kovacs, highlighted policy recommenda-tions to strengthen competitiveness from the perspectives of a globally operating business, as well as from an SME viewpoint.Dedicated sessions underlined private sector priorities for the OECD to lead on common challenges, e.g. addressing global security concerns; mapping rational pathways for the green transition; and encouraging economic participation of all parts of society. In an in -creasingly fragmented international scenario, we also pointed to the vital role of the OECD to promote evidence-based standards for a pro-business environment globally, and shared business views on OECD enlargement.The high-level consultation set the tone for fol-low-up business advocacy with the OECD and its 38 Member States throughout the year. It prepared the ground for our contribution to the 2024 OECD Ministerial Council Meeting.In May, we contributed to the OECD’s 2024 Ministerial Council Meeting. Over 800 govern-ment delegates, including close to 55 Ministers of finance, economy, trade, and other depart -ments, gathered at the OECD in Paris to set strategic priorities and to adopt several key OECD deliverables. The Ministerial meeting was chaired by Japan, with the Netherlands and Mexico serving as Vice Chairs, under the theme Co-Creating the Flow of Change.Our Chair Rick Johnston, who was joined by several Business at OECD Board members and leadership, led our high-level delegation du -ring the discussions with Ministers. Building on our Statement to Ministers, we underlined that in 2024 the OECD should re-focus on what it does best: Comparing economic country per -formance, putting a spotlight on the cost and ease of doing business, and addressing critical structural reforms areas, such as labor shor -tages. As global challenges are best addressed through effective rules-based multilateralism, the OECD needs to effectively promote open markets for trade and investment diversifi -cation, advance coherent and interoperable frameworks for trusted data flows and AI, and advise governments on evidence-based eco -nomic, social, and environmental policies that enable sustainable private sector-led growth.OECD governments adopted the 2024 OECD Ministerial Council Statement , with tangible outcomes across several domains, including the adoption of several new or updated OECD Standards, the OECD’s flagship economic out-look, as well as progress on OECD enlarge -ment to Indonesia, Thailand and Argentina.Our Chair, Rick Johnston, presenting our priorities for Charting the Course for Competitiveness in February 2024.Our delegation led by our Chair, Rick Johnston,where we presented our priorities forCo-Creating the Flow of Change.

[Page 8]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 YEAR HIGHLIGHTSEngagement in Substantive OECD Ministerial Discussions OECD Health Committee Meeting at Ministerial-Level OECD Skills Summit 2024In January, we contributed to the OECD Health Committee Meeting at Ministerial Level, which focused on Better Policies for More Resilient Health Systems. Over 40 OECD and partner countries came together to discuss the lessons learned from the COVID-19 crisis, the health policy challenges that lie ahead, and the actions needed to improve health resilience. The meeting was chaired by Bel -gium, with Australia, Chile, Germany, Norway, and Slovenia serving as Vice-Chairs. Ministers adopted a Declaration on Building Better Po-licies for More Resilient Health Systems, com -mitting to take action to make health systems more resilient and reflecting several of our key business considerations.The OECD also organized a high-level public policy forum on The Future of People-Centred Health Innovation. Leading our Business at OECD delegation, our Health Committee Chair Olga Mironenko, Vice President of In -ternational Relations at UnitedHealth Group, spoke at the high-level opening session on People-Centred Health Innovation.We released our Health Forum synthesis report on Health as a Key for Economic Resilience, as a contribution to the OECD Health Ministerial. The report draws key insights and case stu -dies from our membership and provides sug-gestions for Ministers on how public-private cooperation can help make our health systems more resilient and efficient.In February, we contributed to the OECD Skills Summit chaired by Belgium which took place in Brussels. The Summit brought to gether mi-nisters and senior officials from 36 countries and 8 international organizations. During the two-day event, participants discussed Skills for the Future - Building Bridges to New Opportu-nities, addressing three themes: Establishing a vision of future skills needs, creating learning and career pathways, and enabling everyone to develop new skills.Discussions focused on opportunities amid rapid technological, socio-economic, and envi-ronmental changes, evolving skills needs, and the importance of lifelong learning. They also highlighted the importance of partnerships across policy domains, between training pro -viders and employers, and between sectors to maximize future work opportunities.Business at OECD emphasized the importance of public-private cooperation to ensure educa-tion and training reflect labor market needs, including foundational knowledge, digital lite -racy, and competencies like critical thinking, creativity, and ethics. This collaboration is cru-cial given ongoing labor shortages and the impacts of digital and green transformations. Our Deputy Executive Director, Nicole Prim -mer, stressed the need to prioritize education reform. Dr. Patrik Kovacs, Chair of our SMEs and Entrepreneurship Committee, highlighted the importance of skills development in SMEs. Benjamin Baelus from Microsoft presented a business use case on curriculum development for training cybersecurity specialists, addres-sing the shortage of digital security skills in Belgium.Our delegation led by our Health Committee Chair, Olga Mironenko Stampfer, where we presentedour vision paper.Members of our delegation to the Summit led by our Deputy Executive Director, Nicole Primmer.

[Page 9]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024YEAR HIGHLIGHTSOECD Committee onScience and TechnologyPolicy at Ministerial-Level OECD Committee on Consumer Policy at Ministerial-LevelIn April, we provided key business recommen-dations to the OECD Science and Technology Policy Ministerial , which brought together 45 Ministers and over 60 delegations. The meeting, chaired by France’s former Minis ter of Higher Education and Research, Sylvie Retailleau, addressed Shared Challenges, Transforma -tive Actions . Discussions focused on ena -bling innovation systems to address climate change, health challenges, and digitalization, promoting cross-government and cross-secto-ral cooperation.Our former Technology and Innovation Com -mittee Chair, Richard Johnson, led our high-le-vel business delegation. We released our Transforming Science, Technology and In-novation Policy for Transitions discussion pa-per, emphasizing the need for public-private collaboration to address the investment gap, developing agile governance frameworks, training a skilled workforce, supporting the green transition, and accelerating innovation adoption. Business at OECD was also repre -sented in the OECD Science and Technology Policy Committee Ministerial High-Level Mul-tistakeholder Dialogue.The meeting delivered an action-oriented De -claration, calling on major stakeholders, inclu -ding business, to endorse and support a trans-formative science, technology, and innovation policy agenda. The Ministerial also adopted a roadmap for future OECD work and priorities in these areas, aiming to design better techno-logy governance systems to realize the trans-formative potential of emerging technologies.In October, Business at OECD (BIAC) contri-buted to the first OECD 2024 Committee on Consumer Policy Ministerial Meeting. Over 60 delegations, including nearly 20 Ministers, gathered in Paris to set strategic priorities and future work streams for the OECD Committee on Consumer Policy.Chaired by Australia’s Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Financial Services, the mee -ting was themed Consumers at the Centre of the Digital and Green Transitions. Sessions addressed protecting and empowering consu-mers in these transitions, tackling new product safety risks, and fostering inclusivity through consumer policy.Building on our long-standing engagement, Business at OECD released its vision paper Empowering Consumers Together: A Road -map for OECD Policies , calling for leveraging transitions for business innovation, public-pri-vate partnership to enhance product safety, boosting welfare through trade, fostering a thriving business environment, and anticipa -ting future trends.Business at OECD and Consumers Internatio-nal organized a joint VIP Stakeholder Lunch on A Shared Roadmap for Safety and Sus -tainability. Ministers, high-profile delegates, businesses, and associations participated. Our delegation, led by Business at OECD’s Executive Director Hanni Rosenbaum and Consumer Policy Chair Pierre Chalançon, in-cluded representatives from Amazon, eBay, Visa, Sony Entertainment Group, Cooley LLP , and UL Solutions.Our delegation led by our former Innovation and Technology Committee Chair, Rick Johnson (center).Members of our delegation following our VIP Stakeholder Lunch at the Ministerial.

[Page 10]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 YEAR HIGHLIGHTSOECD Latin America and the Caribbean Ministerial SummitIn October, Business at OECD (BIAC) actively contributed to the OECD Latin America and the Caribbean Ministerial Summit. Over 30 de-legations, including Ministers from the region, gathered in Bogota to set the strategic agen -da for the OECD’s regional engagement and discuss joint priorities to strengthen economic cooperation and development.The 2024 LAC Ministerial Meeting was chaired by the Government of Colombia under the theme Productive Inclusion Revisited, and our Executive Board Member, Fernando Trevino Nuñez, led our Business at OECD delegation. Based on our vision paper How to Drive Social Inclusion in Latin America and the Caribbean, our delegation relayed joint business priori -ties to promote a favorable investment climate in LAC to foster private sector-led growth; un-derline the positive contributions of businesses to economic participation; foster digital and financial inclusion; and drive social inclusion through education, skills and employment.Driving a proactive agenda, Business at OECD also organized a side event with the OECD, hosted by our Colombian member ANDI, in the margins of the Ministerial Summit. Sessions focused on themes including opportunities for economic participation, digital and financial in-clusion, and future pathways for LAC countries to join the OECD. The Ministerial resulted in a Declaration urging stakeholders to protect and empower consu -mers, address product safety risks, collaborate internationally, and strengthen policy enforce-ment. A global lithium-ion battery safety cam-paign and the Global Forum on Consumer Po-licy were also launched.The session provided an excellent opportunity to bring together Business at OECD members from the region, business leaders, OECD Am -bassadors, and OECD Directors to discuss what the private sector needs to thrive in the region.Our Executive Board Member, Fernando Trevino Nuñez, with our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum,at the Ministerial Summit.Our Health Committee Chair, Olga Mironenko Stampfer, joined a panel at the OECD’s Health High-Level Policy Forum in the margins of the OECD’s Health Ministerial Meeting in January 2024.Johnson & Johnson’s Carla Cartwright intervening at the OECD’s Science and Technology Policy Ministerial Meeting Multi-Stakeholder Dialogue in April 2024.eBay’s Andrea Stairs speaking at the OECD’s Consumer Policy Ministerial Session on “Consumers in the Digital Transition” in October 2024.

[Page 11]
ANNUAL REPORT 20242024 FACTS AND FIGURES47NATIONAL MEMBERS ORGANIZATIONS 10+MILLION COMPANIESREPRESENTED GLOBALLY3500+BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE INTERACTIONS AT THE OECD IN 202420FRIEND COMPANIES 16OBSERVER ORGANIZATIONS64ASSOCIATES EXPERT GROUPS30+POLICY GROUPS20+COUNTRY VISITS TO OUR MEMBERS2024 FACTS ANDFIGURES

[Page 12]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 SELECTED HIGHLIGHTSOur Executive Board Member, Seiji Inagaki, with the former Minister for Digital Affairs for Japan, Taro Kono, and our Deputy Executive Director, Nicole Primmer, in the margins of the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting.Our Executive Board Member, Klaus Moosmayer, participating in the OECD’s Critical Supply Chains Forum.Our Chair, Rick Johnston, with the former Deputy Prime Minister for the Netherlands, Karien van Gennip, and our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum, in the margins of the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting.USCIB President and CEO, Whitney Baird, intervening at the OECD Blue Dot Network consultation.SELECTED HIGHLIGHTSOECD Secretary-General, Mathias Cormann with TUAC’s Secretary-General, Veronica Nilsson, and our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum.Our Executive Board Member, Seiji Inagaki, with the former Minister for Foreign Affairs for Japan, Yoko Kamikawa, following our pre-OECD Ministerial Council Meeting Consultation with TUAC.Members of our delegation at the B7 Summit in Italy including our Chair, Rick Johnston, our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum, our Finance Committee Chair, Gianluca Riccio, and our Anti-Corruption Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca.OECD Secretary-General, Mathias Cormann with New Zealand Minister for Trade, Todd McClay, our Southeast Asia Chair, Phil O’Reilly, and OECD Trade and Agriculture Director, Marion Jansen.Our Chair, Rick Johnston, with the former Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs for Japan, Yasushi Hosaka, following our pre-OECD Ministerial Council Meeting Consultation with TUAC.

[Page 13]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024SELECTED HIGHLIGHTSBayer’s Alejandra Castro moderated our Field of the Future Side Eventto the B20 Summit in October 2024.Telefónica’s José Juan Haro intervened at the Investment Promotion Agency Network Meeting as part of the OECD’s Investment Week.UnitedHealth Group’s Dr. Michael Bridges joined discussions on global AI governance as part of our Side Eventto the OECD Global Strategy Group.Our Anti-Corruption Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca, and our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum, met withthe OECD’s Deputy Secretary-GeneralMary-Beth Goodman aboutour priorities on anti-corruption.Our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum, with the B20 2024 Chair, Dan Ioschpe, at the B20 Summit in Brazil in October 2024.Amazon’s Rohan Oommen spoke at the OECD Consumer Policy Ministerial Meeting in October 2024.Microsoft’s Christina Leimoni joined the OECD’s International Conference on AI in Work, Innovation, Productivity, andSkills in December 2024.Our SMEs and Entrepreneurship Committee Chair, Dr. Patrik Kovacs, with Valentino Valentini, the Vice Minister for Enterprise for Italy, and our Policy Manager, Rokas Morkūnas, in the margins of the OECD’s Digital 4 SMEs Roundtable.Pernod Ricard’s Laurent Scheer intervening in the 2024 Business at OECD Health Forum.

[Page 14]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESPOLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESEmerging MarketsChina ExpertGroupDevelopment CommitteeSoutheast Asia Contact GroupLatin America andthe Caribbean Contact GroupEconomic GovernanceCompetition CommitteeGovernance and Regulatory Policy CommitteeEconomic Policy CommitteePrivate Pensions Expert GroupFinance CommitteeSMEs and Entre- preneurship CommitteeOur Policy FamiliesFood, Health and Well-BeingFood and Agriculture Committee Health Committee Tourism Contact GroupEnvironment and Green GrowthBiotechnology Expert GroupEnvironment and Energy CommitteeChemicals CommitteeNanotechnology Expert Group

[Page 15]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESResponsible BusinessAnti-Corruption CommitteeCorporate Governance CommitteeResponsible Business Conduct CommitteeSkills and EmploymentEducation CommitteeEmployment, Labor, and Social Affairs CommitteeInnovation and DigitalBlockchain Contact GroupDigital Policy CommitteeConsumer Policy CommitteeInnovation and Technology CommitteeTrade CommitteeInvestment CommitteeOpen MarketsAnti-Illicit Trade Expert GroupExport Credits Expert GroupTaxationTax Committee

[Page 16]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESAs the OECD’s work on growth and competi -tiveness gained importance this year, our Eco-nomic Policy Committee actively collaborated with the OECD, offering business insights on structural reforms and long-term growth strate-gies. We engaged in discussions on the global economic outlook, industrial policies, climate strategies, and AI’s role in productivity. Our flagship Economic Policy Survey , published twice this year, reflected improving business sentiment but highlighted risks from geopoliti -cal tensions, labor shortages, and trade-restric -ting measures.Our Competition Committee supported the OECD’s efforts to enhance market competition, submitting ten contributions on issues like in-dustrial policy, antitrust enforcement, the digital economy, and AI. We worked closely with the OECD Competition Committee and national au-thorities to strengthen competition law enforce-ment and market reforms.Improving regulatory quality and reducing ad-ministrative burdens remain priorities for our Governance and Regulatory Policy Committee. In 2024, we contributed to the Regulatory Poli-cy Outlook and launched a project on risks from divergence in global ESG reporting standards. We also provided insights on building trust and reinforcing democracy, information integrity, and forthcoming guidance on responsible cor -porate lobbying and political engagement.In financial affairs, we engaged with the OECD Committee on Financial Markets on sustainable finance, AI in finance, and digital banking. In col-laboration with the B20 and IOE, we advocated for aligning policies to fund sustainable growth.Our Private Pensions Expert Group emphasized improving retirement outcomes by addressing pension needs, enhancing service accessibility, and improving information visibility. These pro -posals are set to feature in the next OECD Pen-sions Outlook.With the Committee on SMEs and Entrepre -neurship, we supported the Digital 4 SMEs Ini-tiative and advocated for better regulation, less bureaucracy, skills investment, and a pro-inno-vation policy framework to help SMEs become and remain competitive. Through roundtables and workshops, we promoted key SME growth principles: clarity, simplicity, collaboration, and action. Economic GovernanceSEVERAL OECD COUNTRIES HAVE MADE IT EASIER TO START A BUSINESS, BUT ADMINISTRATIVE BURDENS ON NEW FIRMS COULD BE FURTHER REDUCED. STREAMLINING PROCESSES, EMBRACING DIGITAL TOOLS AND REDUCING ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS COULD ENCOURAGE THE ENTRY OF INNOVATIVE FIRMS AND FOSTER JOB CREATION.OECD (2024): Product Market Regulation (PMR) indicators. DID YOUKNOW?Our SMEs and Entrepreneurship Committee Chair, Patrik Kovacs, intervened at the OECD’s Digital 4 SMEs Roundtable with Ministers in April 2024.Our Competition Committee Vice-Chair, Fevzi Toksoy, intervened at the OECD’s Global Forumon Competition in December 2024.

[Page 17]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our China Expert Group continued to provide expert guidance to China–OECD cooperation, improving trade and investment conditions and the overall business environ -ment in China. We specifically consulted with OECD leadership on trade, investment, digital, and environmental matters, contributing to the finalization of an Agenda for OECD Co-opera-tion with China. Based on the common inte -rests of its member countries, the OECD ad -vances policy dialogue with China in selected areas, promoting progress and convergence of China’s policies, regulations, and guidelines towards OECD standards and legal instruments.Our Southeast Asia Contact Group supported the OECD’s Southeast Asia Regional Pro -gramme through participation in the SEA-OECD Business Network, co-chaired with the ASEAN Business Advisory Council. As the OECD deve -lops its implementation plan for engagement with the region, we remain committed to en-suring the approach is pro-business, fostering growth and integration. A critical opportunity in this regard is OECD enlargement, as the Or-ganization opened accession discussions with Indonesia and Thailand in 2024.Our Latin America and the Caribbean Con-tact Group contributed to the OECD LAC Regional Program to improve the overall business environment in the region and pro -mote OECD best practices. In 2024, we also engaged with the OECD LAC Ministerial Summit in Bogotá. Key highlights included a dedicated OECD-Business at OECD private sector event, organized with exceptional sup-port from our Colombian federation, ANDI. The group also contributed to the Summit through a vision paper featuring case studies from member companies.Development remained a priority on the OECD’s agenda as part of its mission to pro -mote better policies for better lives, both within and outside its member countries. This includes efforts to harness the private sector’s role in economic development, providing tools and recommendations to enhance the invest -ment climate, and implementing reforms to at-tract funding for the Sustainable Development Goals. We also emphasized the vital role of de-velopment policy in fostering an environment conducive to responsible business practices and called for greater policy coherence across these areas.Emerging Markets THE OECD PROMOTES ITSSTANDARDS TO NON-MEMBER COUNTRIES TO ENCOURAGEREFORM. IN 2024, THERE WERE 8 ACCESSION CANDIDATES FORFUTURE OECD ENLARGEMENT: ARGENTINA, BRAZIL, BULGARIA, CROATIA, INDONESIA, ROMANIA, PERU, AND THAILAND.DID YOUKNOW?Our China Expert Group Chair, Davide Cucino, opening our Forum on Agriculture Sustainability andGreen Growth in China in June 2024.PepsiCo CEO for Latin America, Paula Santili,intervening at our Side Event to the OECD LAC Ministerial Summit in Colombia in October 2024.

[Page 18]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Environment and Energy Com -mittee actively engaged with the OECD to in-form policy discussions on environmental sus-tainability, including climate change, resource efficiency, circular economy, biodiversity, and other pressing issues. As the next round of Nationally Determined Contributions under the Paris Agreement is due in 2025, we have been working with governments on technical aspects of the UNFCCC Negotiations through the OECD-IEA Climate Change Expert Group Global Forum, which also addressed the new collective quantified goal on climate finance. Another key focus has been the challenges related to carbon intensity metrics, with Bu-siness at OECD contributing to the Inclusive Forum on Carbon Mitigation Action to pro -mote a more coordinated global approach to climate mitigation.Throughout the year, the OECD has continued updating its environmental standards. We pro-vided input to discussions on revising the OECD’s Polluter Pays Principle, which remains a priority. To support circular economy trade, we encouraged better implementation of the legally binding OECD Decision on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Wastes for Recovery Operations. As the OECD works on a consolidated Recommendation on Sustai -nable Transport, we advocated for technolo -gy neutrality and best-practice policies that foster business innovation.Amid energy dynamics and volatility risks, we have emphasized the need for affordable en-ergy access. As the OECD began work on a Recommendation on the Clean Energy Transi-tion in 2024, we called for a balanced, techno-logy-neutral outcome supportive of business leadership. We also engaged with OECD coun-tries, pressing for Guidance on Credible Coal Policies by Financial Institutions to ensure that climate action aligns with affordable en -ergy.Lastly, the OECD’s Environment, Health, and Safety Program continues to generate signifi-cant cost savings for businesses by avoiding duplicative chemical testing. Our Chemicals Committee has contributed to developing policies for chemical safety and fostering innovation in nanotechnology safety assess -ments, promoting an innovation-friendly bu -siness environment.Environment and Green Growth WITH 15 NEW CARBONPRICING SCHEMES CURRENTLY UNDER DEVELOPMENT – MOSTLY EMISSIONS TRADING SCHEMES(ETSS) – TOTAL COVERAGE WILLRISE TO CLOSE TO 50% OF GHG EMISSIONS OVER THE NEXT FIVE YEARS.OECD (2024): Pricing Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2024: Gearing Up to Bring Emissions DownDID YOUKNOW?Our Environment and Energy Committee Chair, Hans-Jörn Weddige, participated in the OECDForum on Gender in June 2024.

[Page 19]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Food and Agriculture Committee contributed to OECD work on sustainable agri -culture, trade, and agricultural innovation. In light of global challenges such as climate change and geopolitical conflict, a key focus has been advancing our Peace for Food campaign, em -phasizing business priorities and private-sector commitments to global food security.In June, we hosted the inaugural Agriculture and China Forum , promoting dialogue on in -novation and sustainable solutions for China’s green development. Discussions focused on climate governance, green growth, adaptation, and public-private collaboration in agricultural biotechnology. In October, at the B20 Summit in Brazil, we organized a side event on Digital Farming: Enhancing Sustainability and Regene -rative Agriculture. Part of our Field of Future se-ries, this event explored how digital innovation empowers farmers to make data-driven deci-sions, enhancing productivity, profitability, and environmental stewardship. Linking digital far-ming to sustainability builds the case for policy changes, investments, and scaling sustainable practices.In health, the OECD supports countries in achie-ving high-performing systems by measuring outcomes and improving healthcare access, ef -ficiency, and quality. Our Health Committee’s Stronger Together campaign showcases natio-nal business organizations and corporations fostering health as an economic imperative. It calls on governments and the OECD to adopt whole-of-government strategies for resilient health systems, incentivize innovation, and dee-pen collaboration with businesses.The campaign gained prominence during De-cember’s Health Forum, which addressed labor shortages, digitalization, mental health, and continuity of care. This platform strengthened dialogue with governments and stakeholders, culminating in a synthesis report to inform fu-ture policies.Food, Health, and Well-BeingREPORTS JOINTLYPUBLISHED BY WHO, OECDAND OTHERS CALCULATEA 4 TO 1 ECONOMICAND SOCIAL RETURN ONINVESTMENT IN PHYSICAL ACTIVITY WITH GLOBAL TRENDS INDICATING PARTICIPATION LEVELS ARE IN DECLINE.Business at OECD (2025) Physical Activity: the transversal benefits for our people, our planet, DID YOUKNOW?Panellists from our Field of the Future Side-Eventto the B20 Brazil Summit in October 2024.Our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum,intervening at our roundtable on healthcarein Latin America in the margins of the OECD Health Ministerial Meeting in January 2024.

[Page 20]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Digital Policy Committee conti-nued to advocate for regulatory and policy coherence to ensure responsible data sharing and secure cross-border data flows, including cybersecurity. A key priority remains promo -ting investment in affordable, accessible, sus-tainable, and secure communication infrastruc -ture.AI and data governance have been at the fore-front of our collaboration with the OECD. Mul-tistakeholder discussions on AI governance and risk mitigation have been central, with key de -liverables including an update of the OECD AI Principles at the 2024 OECD Ministerial Council Meeting. We actively contribute to the OECD Global Partnership on AI and the G7 process addressing advanced AI systems, including the International Code of Conduct for Organiza -tions Developing Advanced AI Systems. In Oc-tober, we also organized a Business at OECD side event for the OECD Global Strategy Group on Advancing Trustworthy AI and Business In -novation, featuring practical examples of good AI governance.Our Digital Policy Committee also engaged with the OECD Community on Data Free Flow with Trust, contributing to expert groups on cross-border payments and privacy-enhancing technologies. In July, we launched a joint re -port with the USCIB Foundation on Privacy, Immersive Technologies, and the Metaverse in Washington, DC, which has been taken up by the OECD Global Forum on Technology.Our Innovation and Technology Committee provided private sector expertise on science, technology, and innovation policy initiatives conducted at the OECD, engaging stakehol -ders to harness their potential while ensuring values-based technology and appropriate go -vernance safeguards. The OECD Science and Technology meeting at Ministerial level in April was a key milestone for exchanging on Shared Challenges, Transformative Actions for STI Poli-cies, and setting ambitious objectives.This year, Consumer Protection issues have been at the forefront of the OECD’s agen -da, with their first Ministerial-level meeting on the topic. Our Consumer Policy Committee emphasized the need for balanced, eviden-ce-based policies that enhance consumer trust while promoting business innovation and com-petitiveness.Our work focused on digital transformation, product safety, and cross-border consumer protection, fostering a fair, efficient, and in -clusive marketplace.Innovation and Digital IN 2020 ALONE, FINANCIALMARKETS WITNESSED GLOBAL SPENDING OF OVER USD 50BILLION IN AI, AND TOTAL INVESTMENT IN AI VENTURECAPITAL OF OVER USD 4 BILLION WORLDWIDE.OECD (2021)DID YOUKNOW?Our Digital Policy Committee Co-Chair, Chris Sharrock, intervening at the OECD Ministerial Council Meetingin June 2024.Family photo for the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI) Summit in Serbia, including our Digital Policy Committee Vice-Chair, Barry O’Brien,in December 2024.

[Page 21]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Trade Committee actively en -gaged with the OECD, drawing on our global network’s expertise. Based on our publication Trading Better, Living Better, we urged the OECD to prioritize fostering a rules-based, re-silient trading system, advancing digital trade and innovation, levelling the playing field, and securing public support for open markets. We provided sectoral insights to the OECD Criti-cal Supply Chains Forum, underlining the need for diversification options, and contributed to OECD Market Openness Reviews as part of the ongoing accession process. These efforts underscore our commitment to strengthening the foundations of open markets and enhan -cing global trade resilience.Our Anti-Illicit Trade Expert Group empha-sized the need for cooperation between the OECD and the business sector, including at the inaugural meeting of the OECD’s Working Party on Countering Illicit Trade. We raised awareness of intellectual property exploitation and engaged in discussions on e-commerce and the OECD’s Free Trade Zones Recommen-dation.Our Export Credits Expert Group actively contributed to OECD discussions on export credits, emphasizing predictability during un-certainty and enhancing export financing for social infrastructure and net-zero transitions. Based on our joint policy paper, Building on the Momentum for a More Fit-for-Purpose OECD Arrangement, we will update recom -mendations ahead of the 2025 Export Credits Forum.Our Investment Committee played a key role in shaping OECD discussions on investment through regular interaction with the OECD Investment Committee, participation in major events like the Sustainable Investment Days, and providing feedback on key initiatives. We continued to advocate for stable invest -ment conditions, engaging on issues such as the revision of Track 1 Investment Treaties. In stakeholder consultations, we emphasized the need for a safer investment climate in an in -creasingly fragmented world. Through its legal instruments, including the OECD Declaration on International Investment, the OECD Poli-cy Framework for Investment and Guidelines on National Security Policies, the OECD pro-motes open markets and a conducive invest -ment environment. Open Markets THE OECD’S EXPORT CREDITGROUP SUPPORTS OVER$100 BILLION IN EXPORTCREDIT TRANSACTIONSGLOBALLY , HELPING TO FINANCE INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND INVESTMENT.OECD Export Credit Group Annual Report, 2023.DID YOUKNOW?Members of our Trade Committee including our Committee Chair, Pat Ivory (center) in April 2024. Members of our Anti-Illicit Trade Expert Group following the establishment of the OECD Working Party on Anti-Illicit Trade, including our Expert Group Chair,David Luna (center), in April 2024.

[Page 22]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) Committee consulted closely with the OECD offering a private sector perspective, including on due diligence and the intersec -tion of RBC with Artificial Intelligence. In our comments, we underlined that OECD gui -dance on RBC must be practical to imple -mentable for business and avoid unintended consequences. We published The OECD Gui-delines for Multinational Enterprises: What Business Needs to Know to raise awareness. Additionally, in collaboration with our US member federation, USCIB, we organized an in-person meeting with the OECD in Seatt -le, allowing our members to engage in dis -cussions with the OECD and the Head of the OECD Responsible Business Conduct Centre. Going forward, we will continue to emphasize the need for policy coherence, balanced im -plementation, and outreach to non-adhering countries to foster a global level playing field for RBC.Our Corporate Governance Committee conti-nued to shape OECD work on the implemen -tation of the G20/OECD Corporate Gover -nance Principles. In addition, a key milestone was our contribution to the revisions of the OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises in October. This global standard provides guidance to help policymakers im prove the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for state-owned enterprises. The Guidelines ensure SOEs contribute to sustainability, economic secu -rity, and resilience by maintaining high stan -dards of integrity and business conduct.The fight against corruption remained a top priority for our Anti-Corruption Committee throughout 2024. We promoted business-led anti-corruption efforts and celebrated the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention 25th anniver-sary by launching our Zero Corruption cam-paign. Our Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca, led our involvement in the B20 Compliance and Integrity Task Force. During the B20 Summit in São Paulo we organized a well-at -tended side-event to bring the messages of the OECD business community to the atten -tion of the B20.Responsible Business60% OF OECD COUNTRIESDO NOT MONITOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIRANTI-CORRUPTION ANDINTEGRITY STRATEGIES, HIGHLIGHTING A CONSIDERABLE MONITORING GAP . THIS OVERSIGHT EXPOSES BUSINESSES TO POTENTIALLY INEFFECTIVE STRATEGIES AND UNCHECKED CORRUPTION RISKS. OECD (2024): Anti-Corruption and Integrity Outlook 2024Members of our panel from the B20 Integrity and Compliance Task Side Event to the B20 Brazil Summit with our Anti-Corruption Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca, in Brazil in October 2024.We also contributed the private sector pers -pective to the OECD Global Anti-Corruption and Integrity Forum, including by organizing a dedicated side event. In 2025, we will conti-nue our engagement and release a report on how Artificial Intelligence can help combat cor-ruption, featuring case studies from member companies.DID YOUKNOW?

[Page 23]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESThroughout the year, our Employment, Labor, and Social Affairs Committee emphasized the need to address labor shortages and skill mis-matches, supporting dynamic, inclusive, and resilient labor markets across all age groups, including in the context of the green and digi-tal transitions. We encouraged the OECD to adopt a balanced perspective on the net-zero transition’s implications for the labor market, considering both opportunities for new occu-pations and challenges for certain sectors. We also contributed business perspectives to the OECD’s development of a Recommendation on AI in the Labour Market, to be adopted at the 2025 OECD Ministerial Council Mee -ting. As labor markets remain tight in many countries, we were pleased to see the OECD publish a special feature on labor shortages in the December edition of the OECD Econo-mic Outlook. Addressing labor shortages by increasing participation and addressing skills mismatches will remain a key priority.In 2024, our Education Committee continued to advance priorities from our 2022 OECD Education Ministerial Statement on Educa -tion for a Resilient, Regenerative Future. Our work focused on modernizing curricula to align with labor market needs, investing in the tea -ching profession, and leveraging technology to strengthen education systems. We worked closely with the OECD on the International Vo-cational Education and Training Assessment project, ensuring business perspectives are considered. In February, we contributed to the OECD 2024 Skills Summit, highlighting our priorities for education system reforms. At the OECD Education Policy Reform Dialo-gues in November in Zagreb, we emphasized business priorities to attract, retain, and em -power teachers in an AI-driven world. Addi -tionally, we launched the project Boosting Productivity and Business Growth - the Role of AI Skills to explore AI’s transformative role in education and training, with a policy brief and use cases to be published next year.Skills and Employment ABOUT ONE-THIRD OF WORKERS IN OECD COUNTRIES ARE MISMATCHEDFOR THEIR JOBS, WHETHER IN TERMS OF THEIR QUALIFICATIONS, SKILLS OR FIELDS OF STUDY . THIS HAS SIGNIFICANT ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COSTS, PARTICULARLY IF THEY ARE OVER-QUALIFIED. OECD (2024): Survey of Adult Skills 2023.DID YOUKNOW?Members of our Employment, Labor, and Social Affairs Committee with our Committee Chair, Renate Hornung Draus (center), in September 2024.Members of our Education Committee with our Committee Chair, Kate Brosnan (center), in November 2024.

[Page 24]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 POLICY GROUP ACTIVITIESIn 2024, our Tax Committee engaged with the OECD to address direct and indirect tax issues across sectors. Our work aims to enhance tax certainty and support effective tax policy in the context of the digitalizing economy, glo -bal labor mobility, and the green transition, fostering cross-border trade, investment, in -novation, and sustainable growth. We pro -vided technical advice on the OECD/G20 project addressing the tax challenges of the digital economy and its two-pillar solution.Our Tax Committee, along with the Pillar One and Pillar Two Business Advisory Groups , provided detailed input on profit re-alloca -tion and a global minimum tax. We empha -sized streamlined administrative processes and mechanisms to improve tax certainty and urged jurisdictions to refrain from unilateral measures like digital service taxes.In 2024, as Pillar Two entered its implemen -tation phase, we advocated for simplification and stable guidance to minimize compliance costs and ensure consistent application. We also pushed for a permanent safe harbor to simplify compliance in low-tax jurisdictions.We led business input at OECD consultations on mobile worker taxation, organized the first Tax Certainty Roundtable, and launched an advocacy paper on the OECD International Compliance Assurance Program. We conti -nued our dialogue on tax and development, contributed to the OECD Forum on Tax Ad -ministration, and supported conferences with member organizations.We also actively contributed to the OECD Fo-rum on Tax Administration Large Business and International Program Meeting, Consultation on a Global Minimum Tax in Amsterdam, and the FTA Plenary Meeting and Tax Certainty Day held in Athens. We also continue to lead business input related to the OECD’s work on VAT/GST as well as the OECD/G20 Common Reporting Standard. We continue to organize conferences with member organizations in -cluding USCIB and Keidanren and support an annual International Tax Conference in coo -peration with BusinessEurope and the Inter-national Chamber of Commerce.TaxationIN 2024, MUTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURES(MAP) INVENTORIES DECREASEDFOR THE FIRST TIME,WITH A 3.8% REDUCTIONIN END-OF-YEAR CASES. OECD (2024): TAX REVENUE (INDICATOR)Members of our Tax Committee at the OECD Forum on Tax Administration Plenary Meeting and Tax Certainty Day in Greece in November 2024. Members of our Tax Committee, with our Committee Chair, Alan McLean (center left), in October 2024.DID YOUKNOW?

[Page 25]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLESCHARTING THE COURSE FOR COMPETITIVENESSECONOMIC POLICY SURVEYS 2024HEALTH AS A KEY FOR ECONOMIC RESILIENCEBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Statement to the 2024 Annual Consultation with OECD Ambassadors and LeadershipBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Contribution to the 2024 OECD Health Ministerial MeetingAs we held our Annual Consultation with OECD Ambassadors in February, this document outlines Business at OECD priority recommendations for 2024. These recommendations were under the themes reviving competitiveness, leading on common challenges and inspiring a better future globally.Our annual economic survey released in May and December provides a snapshot of the business sentiment in OECD countries, reflecting the views of leading national bu siness and employer organizations. The syn -thesis report underlines that in 2024 business remained concerned about trade restrictions and labor shortages, as heightened geopolitical tensions remain a key risk to global economic growth. This document emphasized that the public and private sector can and must come together in transforming our health systems to be more data driven, preventive, decarbonized, col-laborative, and ultimately more resistant - key themes from our Health Campaign Stronger Together. The economic resilience of our countries depends on it. The need for action is pressing, but it will happen neither overnight nor alone. Partnerships between govern -ment and business, between different government ministries, as well as between multila -teral organizations are necessary for fostering the resilience we need.CO-CREATING THE FLOW OF CHANGEBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Statement to the 2024 Ministerial Council MeetingAs Ministers from OECD countries gathered in June, this paper provides key business re-commendations in response to the Ministerial theme, calling on the OECD to re-focus on what it does best: Comparing economic country performance, putting a spotlight on the cost and ease of doing business, and addressing critical structural reforms areas, such as labor shortages.FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLESHigh-Level StatementsSelected Policy PublicationsTRANSFORMING SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY , AND INNOVATION POLICY FOR TRANSITIONSBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Contribution to the 2024 OECD Science and Technology Policy MinisterialThis document was released in the context of the OECD Science and Technology Policy Ministerial Meeting, where we underlined the need for closer public-private collabora -tion. Key priorities for action include addressing the investment gap, developing agile governance frameworks, training a skilled workforce, supporting the green transition, and accelerating innovation adoption.

[Page 26]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLESEMPOWERING CONSUMERS TOGETHER: A ROADMAP FOR OECD POLICIESPRIVACY , IMMERSIVE TECHNOLOGIES, AND THE METAVERSEHOW TO DRIVE SOCIAL INCLUSION IN LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN (LAC): THE ROLE OF BUSINESSBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Recommendations for the OECD Latin America and the Caribbean Ministerial SummitBusiness at OECD (BIAC) Vision Paper on Consumer PoliciesThis document was released in the context of the first-of-a-kind OECD Committee on Consumer Policy Ministerial Meeting with business contributions related to Consumers at the Centre of the Digital and Green Transitions. Our paper focused on tran sitions as a catalyst for business innovation, co-constructing innovation and consumer product safety, boosting consumer welfare through trade and investment, fostering an environment for business to thrive, and future trends and policy considerations.This joint report of Business at OECD and the USCIB Foundation reflects the outcomes of four roundtables across continents and explores the privacy implica tions of the me -taverse using OECD guidelines. It aims to find practical privacy solutions, fostering user trust without hindering innovation. Recommendations include enhancing the evidence base, mapping relevant OECD work, considering regulatory sandboxes, and de ploying privacy-enhancing technologies.This document outlines several recommenda tions advocating for a favourable investment climate, positive contributions of businesses to economic participation, fostering digital and financial inclusion, economic empowerment of women, and driving social inclusion through education and skills. It is underpinned by 5 concrete use cases that showcase how companies and other relevant organization apply social inclusion in their work.FUNDING SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTSBusiness at OECD (BIAC), B20 Brazil, and the International Organisation of Employers (IOE) Joint PaperIn line with the B20 Brazil 2024 theme of Inclusive Growth for a Sustainable Future , this paper complements the B20 Taskforces and Action Council recommendations on funding sustainabi-lity, presenting five use cases with concrete actions that, individually or combined, can signifi -cantly accelerate progress towards sustainability and economic growth. This was presented at an event on Ways to Empower SMEs with Access to Finance and Capabilities, While Guiding Them Through the Net-Zero Economy organized by Deloitte.

[Page 27]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLESSelected Special Events ZERO CORRUPTION FORUMHEALTH FORUMMETAVERSE REPORT LAUNCHIn March, we launched our Zero Corruption Cam-paign in Rome at an event under the patronage of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Italy, following the 25th Anniversary of the OECD Anti-Bribery Conven-tion. High-level public and private sector speakers, including our Anti-Corruption Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca, called for more focus on the fight against corruption in 2024. They emphasized bu -siness leadership, public-private partnerships, set -ting the right tone from the top, and harnessing education for zero corruption.In December, we convened our Health Forum un -der the theme Health as an Economic Impe rative. Gathering over 150 participants, the event provi -ded a platform for public and private sector ex -change to identify priorities, opportunities, and challenges. The Forum has kickstarted a series of regional roundtables and annual fora from 2025-27, aiming to shape the OECD’s health policy agenda and reinforce Business at OECD ’s role as a trusted partner.In July, we launched our joint report on Privacy, Immersive Technologies, and the Metaverse with the USCIB Foundation in Washington, D.C. At the event, members discussed the findings with senior representatives from business, governments, and the OECD. The report, a deliverable of our Digi-tal Policy Committee, includes insights from four regional roundtables held in Gran Canaria, Paris, Washington, D.C., and Kyoto, and member input. It calls on the OECD to deepen the evidence base to strengthen the relevance and applicability of the OECD Privacy Guidelines for immersive technolo -gies and the Metaverse.Members of our Anti-Corruption Committee, including our Committee Chair, Nicola Allocca.Ambassadors to the OECD at our Health Forum with our Health Committee Chair, Olga Mironenko Stampfer.Panellists at the launch including our Deputy Executive Director, Nicole Primmer, USCIB’s Vice President for Digital, Cheryl Miller, the OECD’s Deputy Director for Science, Technology, and Innovation, Audrey Plonk, USCIB’s President and CEO, Whitney Baird, and the United State Department’s David Turnbull.

[Page 28]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 FLAGSHIP DELIVERABLESOECD GLOBAL STRATEGY GROUP BUSINESS AT OECD SIDE-EVENTIn October, during the OECD Global Strategy Group Meeting on Futures of AI Governance , we hosted a side event on Advancing Trustworthy AI: Business Innovation for our Future. This session brought together AI experts, OECD Ambassadors, and leaders to showcase AI solutions, discuss tech-nology governance, and explore the OECD’s role. Moderated by USCIB CEO Whitney Baird, Business at OECD Southeast Asia Chair Phil O’Reilly, and former Ambassador of the United States to the OECD Sean Patrick Maloney, the event strengthe -ned connections between business developments, strategic thinking, and actionable policies.Family photo from our Side-Event to the OECD Global Strategy Group.INTERNATIONAL TAX CONFERENCESIn 2024, we supported two International Tax Confe-rences. In October, USCIB held the 17th Annual Tax Conference in Washington, D.C., addressing issues related to the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework on Pillar One and Pillar Two, global mobility, tax and the environment, and tax certainty. In July, we sup-ported the annual International Tax Conference in Munich with ICC and BusinessEurope, featuring discussions with the OECD, United Nations, and European Commission on Paving the way Beyond BEPS and the Two Pillars.Our Tax Committee Chair, Alan McLean,intervening at USCIB’s Annual Tax Conference.

[Page 29]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024WORK WITH OTHER FORAWORK WITH OTHER FORAAs the B7 dialogue provides actionable policy proposals to G7 countries, Business at OECD (BIAC) is proud to have been invited to be a Network Partner to the B7 Italy Presidency by our National Member Organization, Confindustria. Our Chair Rick Johnston spoke at the B7 Sum mit in Rome in May. Contributing to the panel Beyond Borders: Charting a New Course for Global Cooperation, our Chair emphasized the need to strengthen the competitiveness of the OECD’s market-based economies, highlighted in our 2024 Business at OECD Economic Survey, and underlined a predictable policy environment for international trade and invest -ment as a top priority. The Summit brought together Ministers of the G7 Presidency, leadership of inter-national organizations, as well as the Presidents of the G7 Business Federations alongside global CEOs. We look forward to close cooperation with our National Member Organization, the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, who holds the Presidency of the B7 with Canada hosting the G7 in 2025.Our Chair, Rick Johnston (center), joined a panelwith the IOE’s Secretary-General Roberto Suarez Santos and the International Chamber of Commerce’s Secretary-General John W.H. Denton,at the B7 Summit in May 2024.

[Page 30]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 WORK WITH OTHER FORAAs the B20 Dialogue provides actionable policy proposals to G20 countries, Business at OECD (BIAC) has been serving as a long-standing Network Partner to rotating B20 Presidencies. In 2024, our Brazilian observer, the National Confederation of Industry of Brazil (CNI), assumed the B20 Presidency. We chan-nelled our Business at OECD policy positions which helped shape consensus B20 recommendations for OECD countries and beyond.The commitment of our Business at OECD network was demonstrated by our members’ active parti -cipation in all B20 Brazil Task Forces and Action Councils including a B20 Legacy Initiative; She Leads B20. Several of our members also took on B20 leadership positions, including as Co-Chairs of the Task Forces on Employment & Education, Finance & Infrastructure, and Integrity & Compliance. Our Chair, Rick Johnston, also served as a member of the International Business Advisory Caucus.At the B20 summit in Sao Paulo, we organized two B20 side events, on anti-corruption and on agricultu-re. As the event fostered dialogue among business leaders and advanced joint policy recommendations for G20 leaders, our members underlined the critical role of the OECD in spreading good practices and standards for market governance globally. In this regard, we also engaged with the forthcoming 2025 B20 Presidency under our Observer Organization, Business Unity South Africa (BUSA).We will continue to support the B20 process in 2025 working closely with BUSA, which has been a long-standing member of our global network.Our Chair, Rick Johnston, joined the B20 Brazil Inception event in January 2024.Our Finance Committee Chair, Gianluca Riccio, presented our joint paper with the IOE and B20 Brazil 2024 at a dedicated Deloitte Side Eventto the B20 Summit in October 2024.

[Page 31]
In 2024, Business at OECD signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with BUSINESSAfrica to en -hance the cooperative relationship between our two organizations going forward. This partnership fo -cuses on sharing best practices, and actively engaging in initiatives of the OECD which support the continent’s economic and social transformation agenda. The MoU also underscores the importance of regular, meaningful dialogue and collaborative efforts for effective outcomes, reinforcing a robust framework for advancing the shared economic and sustainable development goals of the African Union and OECD countries.Business at OECD continues to work under a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ASEAN-BAC, which has marked the collaboration between the two organizations since 2023. This partnership aims to exchange best practices, issue impactful joint business statements, and actively participate in OECD SEARP initiatives. By emphasizing the value of regular, meaningful dialogue and coordinated efforts, the MoU establishes a strong framework for achieving shared economic and sustainable development goals across ASEAN and OECD countries.Our Executive Director, Hanni Rosenbaum,with the Secretary-General of BUSINESSAfrica,Jacqueline Mugo, at the MoU Signing in the marginsof the B20 Summit in October 2024.ANNUAL REPORT 2024WORK WITH OTHER FORA

[Page 32]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 OCTOBER 2024 ANDI, ColombiaOCTOBER 2024 BUSA, BrazilFEBRUARY 2024 BDI, GermanyMember Visits JUNE 2024 Argentina Chamber of Commerce, FranceJULY 2024 KADIN Indonesia, FranceJUNE 2024 Australian Chamberof Commerce andIndustry, France

[Page 33]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 NOVEMBER 2024 Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists,LithuaniaFEBRUARY 2024 FeBAF, Italy MARCH 2024 FKI, KoreaMARCH 2024 Keidanren, JapanFEBRUARY 2024Assonime, Italy

[Page 34]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 We benefit from the expertise of national business organizations, which constitute our core membership, and set our policy agenda. The input from their leadership, their staff, and their members is fundamental to drive our policy contributions to cutting-edge and technical issues in OECD policymaking.Our National Member OrganizationsAUSTRALIA AUSTRIABELGIUMCANADACHILECOLOMBIACOSTA RICACOSTA RICACZECH REPUBLICDENMARK DENMARK ESTONIA FINLAND FRANCEGERMANY GERMANY GREECEHUNGARY HUNGARY ICELANDIRELANDISRAELITALYITALYAustralian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI)Federation of Austrian Industries (IV)Federation of Belgian Enterprises (VBO FEB)Canadian Chamber of CommerceConfederation of Production and Commerce of Chile (CPC)National Business Association of Colombia (ANDI)Costa Rican Union of Chambers and Associations of the Private Business Sector (UCCAEP)Chamber of Industries of Costa Rica (CICR)Confederation of Industry of the Czech Republic (SP)Danish Employers’ Confederation (DA)Confederation of Danish Industry (DI)Estonian Employers’ Confederation Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK)Movement of the Enterprises of France (MEDEF)Confederation of German Employers’ Associations (BDA)Federation of German Industries (BDI)Hellenic Federation of Enterprises (SEV)Confederation of Hungarian Employers and Industrialists (MGYOSZ)National Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers (VOSZ)Confederation of Icelandic Enterprise (SA)Ibec (Irish Business and Employers Confederation)Manufacturers’ Association of Israel (MAI)The Association of Italian Joint Stock Companies (assonime)General Confederation of Italian Industry (Confindustria)

[Page 35]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 ITALY JAPAN SOUTH KOREA LATVIA LITHUANIA LUXEMBOURG MEXICO NETHERLANDS NEW ZEALAND NORWAY POLANDPORTUGAL SLOVAKIA SLOVENIA SPAIN SWEDEN SWITZERLAND SWITZERLAND TÜRKIYETÜRKIYETÜRKIYE UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATESItalian Banking Insurance and Finance Federation (FeBAF)Keidanren (Japan Business Federation)Federation of Korean Industries (FKI)Employers’ Confederation of Latvia (LDDK)Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (LPK)FEDIL - The Voice of Luxembourg’s IndustryEmployers Confederation of the Mexican Republic (COPARMEX)Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers (VNO-NCW)BusinessNZConfederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO)Polish Confederation LewiatanConfederation of Portuguese Business (CIP)National Union of Employers (NUE)Association of Employers of Slovenia (ZDS)Confederation of Employers and Industries of Spain (CEOE)Confederation of Swedish Enterpriseeconomiesuisse - Swiss Business FederationSwiss Employers ConfederationTurkish Confederation of Employer Associations (TISK)Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Türkiye (TOBB) Turkish Industry and Business Association (TÜSIAD)Confederation of British Industry (CBI)United States Council for International Business (USCIB)

[Page 36]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 We also appreciate the input of observer national business organizations from non-OECD member states that actively engage in our policy groups. Engagement from their leadership, their staff, and their members is fundamental to drive our policy contributions.Our Observer OrganizationsARGENTINA ARGENTINABRAZILBULGARIACROATIAEGYPTINDIAINDIAINDONESIAPERU ROMANIA SINGAPORESOUTH AFRICATHAILANDUKRAINEUKRAINEArgentine Chamber of Commerce and Services (CAC)The Industrial Organization of Argentina (UIA)National Confederation of Industry of Brazil (CNI)Association of the Organizations of the Bulgarian Employers (BIA)Croatian Employers’ Association (CEA)Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI)Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KADIN)CONFIEP - National Confederation of Private Business InstitutionsCONCORDIA - Employers Confederation of RomaniaSingapore Business Federation (SBF)BUSA – Business Unity South AfricaJoint Standing Committee on Commerce, Industry, andBanking (JSCCIB)Ukrainian League of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (ULIE)Union of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs (SUP)

[Page 37]
ACCA - Association of Chartered Certified AccountantsAESGP - Association of the European Self-Care IndustryALAMI - Latin American Association of Private Health SystemsASIET - Inter-American Association of Telecom EnterprisesBIR - Bureau of International Recyclingccia - Computer & Communications Industry Associationcecimo - European Association of the Machine Tool Industries and Related Manufacturing Technologiesceemet - Council of European Employers of the Metal Engineering & Technology-based Industriescefic - European Chemical Industry Councilcewep - Confederation of European Waste-to-Energy PlantsCOCIR - European Coordination Committee of the Radiological Electromedical and Healthcare IT IndustryConnect Europe - European Telecommunications Network Operators’ AssociationCosmetics EuropeCropLife InternationalEBF - European Banking FederationECGA - European Carbon and Graphite Associationeurima - European Insultation Manufacturers AssociationEurometaux - European Association of MetalsEuropaBioEuropean Aluminiumeuromines - European Association of Mining Industries Metal Ores & Industrial Minerals Associationefpia - European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries’ AssociationsEIRMA - European Industrial Research Management AssociationEPRA - European Public Real Estate AssociationEuRIC - European Recycling Industries’ ConfederationFIATA - International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations FIEC - European Construction Industry FederationFIFARMA - Latin American Federation of the Pharmaceutical Industry FoodDrink EuropeGlobal Self-Care FederationGlobal Travel TechGS1GSMA ANNUAL REPORT 2024OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 Our Associate Expert GroupsWe also benefit from the sectoral expertise of our supranational sectoral business organizations that actively engage in our policy groups. The input from these organizations is fundamental to drive our policy contributions to cutting-edge and technical issues in OECD policymaking.

[Page 38]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 ICI - Investment Company Instituteifra - The International Fragrance AssociationInsurance EuropeInternational Chamber of ShippingICMM - International Council on Mining and MetalsIFAC - International Federation of AccountantsIFPMA - International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associationsifpi - International Federation of the Phonographic Industryifa - International Fertilizer AssociationHealth and Fitness Association ISF - International Seed FederationITMF - International Textile Manufacturers FederationMedicines for EuropeMedTech EuropePPTA - Plasma Protein Therapeutics AssociationPlastics EuropespiritsEUROPE TFWA - Tax Free World AssociationTransnational Alliance to Combat Illicit TradeUehp - European Union of Private Hospitalsunife - The European Rail Supply Industry AssociationWBA - World Brewing AllianceWorld Employment ConfederationWFA - World Federation of AdvertisersWFSGI - World Federation of Sporting Goods IndustryWorld Pharmacy CouncilWSBI ESBG - World Savings and Retail Banking Institute & The European Savings and Retail Banking GroupWorld Spirits Allianceworldsteel Association International Aluminium Institute

[Page 39]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024OUR GLOBAL NETWORK IN 2024 Our Friends ProgramThrough our ”Friends of Business at OECD ” corporate engagement program, we greatly benefit from the active support of a number of multinational corporations that provide voluntary financial contributions, and secondments to help us fulfil our mission as the global business voice in all aspects of the OECD’s policymaking.Our Friends program offers a space for companies to obtain high visibility through our organization in support of our common mission to provide strategic business input to the OECD.We were very pleased to have as Friends the following companies for the 2024 period:- Anheuser-Busch InBev- Amazon- Bayer- The Dai-ichi Life Insurance- Deloitte - Diageo- FMC- Google- HP- Johnson & Johnson- L ’Oréal- Meta- Microsoft- Novartis- Pernod Ricard- PricewaterhouseCoopers- Randstad- Sanofi- SOMPO Holdings- UnitedHealth Group

[Page 40]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 OUR KEY PEOPLECHARLES (RICK) JOHNSTON PHILIP AIKEN AMMINNA AILAMARÍA HELENA ANTOLÍN GERHARD F. BRAUNBARAN ÇELIKH.S. CHOSEIJI INAGAKIJANINE JUGGINSEMMA MARCEGAGLIA DOMINIQUE MOCKLYKLAUS MOOSMAYERFERENC ROLEK ALBERTO SALAS FERNANDO TREVIÑO NUÑEZChair of Business at OECD (BIAC) (United States) Executive Board Member (Australia)Executive Board Member (Finland)Executive Board Member (Spain)Executive Board Member (Germany)Executive Board Member (Türkiye)Executive Board Member (Korea)Executive Board Member (Japan)Executive Board Member (United Kingdom)Executive Board Member (Italy)Executive Board Member (France)Executive Board Member (Switzerland)Executive Board Member (Hungary)Executive Board Member (Chile)Executive Board Member (Mexico)OUR KEY PEOPLEOur Executive Board

[Page 41]
ANNUAL REPORT 2024OUR KEY PEOPLEHANNI ROSENBAUM NICOLE PRIMMERDOMINIK KÜMMERLEROKAS MORKŪNASEMMA BRIERLEYMAYLIS BERVILLERNATHAN MUNCH JACOBO RAMOS FOLCHAIMEE SAN RAMONSATOSHI IWASHITA MINAMI KAKUDAMAX JABLONOWSKIMAXIME LEDIEU JASMINE PUOTI KELSEY WAREEMMANUELLE RAVELOSON MAHASAMPOMARIE TIRILLY ELIZA WEBER Executive Director Deputy Executive DirectorPolicy Director and Strategic Communications Policy Manager and Strategic Member Engagement Policy ManagerPolicy ManagerPolicy ManagerPolicy ManagerTax Policy ConsultantPolicy Expert and B20 CoordinatorPolicy Expert and Executive Board Support Communications and Campaigns AdvisorPolicy AdvisorOffice Manager and Senior Executive AssistantSpecial Projects Coordinator and Assistant to Policy ManagersAdministrative AssistantPolicy InternPolicy InternOur Team

[Page 42]
Business at OECD (BIAC) 13/15, Chaussée de la Muette 75016 Paris, France+33 (0)1.42.30.09.60

