[Page 1]
RMIT Strategic
Management Case
Studies

[Page 3]
RMIT STRATEGIC
MANAGEMENT CASE
STUDIES
TIM O'SHANNASSY AND JUSTIN
PIERCE
RMIT Op en Press
Melb ourne

[Page 4]
RMIT Strategic Management Case Studies Copyright
University is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License, except
where otherwise noted.

[Page 5]
CONTENTS
Acknowledgement of Country vii
Accessibility ix
Versioning History xii
About this Book xiii
Preface xvii
Introduction 1
1. National Australia Bank: Reviewing
strategic ambition and how to get there
2. ANZ Banking Group Limited: Mergers,
acquisitions, organic growth or cost
control
3. Problems from London Head Office to
Outback Australia: Resolving Corporate
Governance and Aboriginal
Reconciliation Issues at Rio Tinto Limited
4. Cochlear Limited 2021: Managing
Through the Pandemic
58

[Page 6]
5. Myer Holdings Limited 2021 83
6. Sydney Airport Holdings – Back to
Business in 2022 and Beyond
7. Temple & Webster Group Limited 143
8. Cyclone Metals Limited 2022 – The
Challenges of Mining, Exploration,
Finance and Politics
9. Bank of Queensland: Sustaining a unique
point of differentiation in a changing
world
10. Endeavour Group: A Fresh Start in a
World of Uncertainty
11. AV Jennings: Strategy in an Uncertain
Business Environment
12. Bendigo and Adelaide Bank:
Environmental, Social, and Economic
Sustainability
13. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company Limited: The Eyes of the World
are Watching
14. Mandarin Oriental in Vietnam: The
Challenges of Establishing a New
Property
279

[Page 7]
‘Luwaytini’ by Mark Cleaver,
Palawa.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
OF COUNTRY
In Aboriginal and T orres Strait Islander culture it is
respectful to f ormally w omin djeka (w elcome) pe ople to
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander c ountry or land. At
RMIT we do this with the following acknowledgement:

“We would like to
acknowledge
Wurundjeri people of
the Kulin Nations as
the Traditional Owners
of the land on which
the University stands.
We respectfully
recognise Elders past, present and future.”

At RMIT we recognise and respect the unique culture and
contribution that Aboriginal and T orres Strait Islander
people bring to our c ommunities. We are also proud to
provide study , cultural, & personal support to our
Aboriginal & T orres Strait Islander students in their
learning journey. We womin djeka y ou to further e xplore
and experience more about Australian Indigenous culture
by visiting our Indigenous e ducation c entre – Ngarara
STRATEGY CASES | VII

[Page 8]
Willim Centre and interacting with our Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander staff and students.

VIII | STRATEGY CASES

[Page 9]
ACCESSIBILITY
Accessibility statement
RMIT Univ ersity supports the c reation of fre e, open, and
accessible educational resources. We are actively committed to
increasing the ac cessibility and usability of the te xtbooks and
support resources we produce.
Accessibility features of the
web version of this resource
The web v ersion of this resourc e has be en designe d with
accessibility in mind and incorporates the following features:
• It has been optimised for people who use screen reading
technology.
◦ All content can be navigated using a keyboard.
◦ Links, headings, and tables are formatted to work
with screen readers.
◦ Images have text alternatives.
• Information is not conveyed by colour alone.
ACCESSIBILITY | IX

[Page 10]
Other file formats available
In addition to the w eb v ersion, this boo k is a vailable in a
number of file formats, including:
• Print PDF: the format you should select if you plan to
make a printed, physical copy of your book. This file
meets the requirements of printers and print-on-demand
services.
• Digital PDF: useful if you want to distribute your book
as a digital file, but do not intend to print the file.
Digital PDFs are optimized for accessibility, contain
hyperlinks for easier navigation, and can be used online.
• EPUB: EPUB files can be submitted to any popular ebook distributor and opened by most modern e-book
readers. This is the file you’d use to submit your e-book
to Kobo, Nook, iBooks, Amazon, and others.
• and various editable files: look for the ‘Download this
book’ drop-down menu on the landing page to select the
file type you want.
Accessibility improvements
While we strive to ensure that this resource is as accessible and
usable as possib le, w e might not alw ays get it right. W e are
always looking for ways to make our resources more accessible.
X | ACCESSIBILITY

[Page 11]
If you have problems accessing this resource, please email us to
let us know so we can fix the issue.
ACCESSIBILITY | XI

[Page 12]
VERSIONING HISTORY
This page provides a record of edits and changes made to this
text from pub lication to its latest iteration. Whenev er e dits
or updates are made to the te xt, w e pro vide a re cord and
description of those changes here.
If you have a correction or recommendation you would like to
suggest, please contact the RMIT Open Pub lishing Team in
the Library.
Version Date Type Description
V1 1/12/2023 Published
XII | VERSIONING HISTORY

[Page 13]
ABOUT THIS BOOK
Disclaimer
RMIT Library staff have compiled this textbook in good faith,
exercising all due care and attention.
No representation is made about the accuracy,
completeness or suitability of the information in this
publication for any particular purpose. The publisher assumes
no responsibility for any damage or injury to persons or
property arising out of the use of any materials, instructions,
methods or ideas contained in the book. Readers should seek
appropriate advice when applying the information to their
specific needs.
Attributions
This te xtbook includes material adapte d from third p arty
works under Creativ e Commons lic ences. In the c ase of
multiple downstream adaptations, links to original w orks are
included within the attribution statement where possible.
ABOUT THIS BOOK | XIII

[Page 14]
Suggested citation
O’Shannassy, T., Pierce, J., Jasper, S., Hope, C., and F arah,
M. 2023. RMIT Strategic M anagement Case Studies. RMIT
Open Press, Melbourne, Australia.
Suggested attribution
“RMIT Str ategic Ma nagement Case Stu dies” b y Tim
O’Shannassy, Justin Pierc e, Step hen Jasper, Chris Hope and
Mohamed F arah is lic ensed under an AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivs 4.0 International licence.
Authors
Tim O’Shannassy, Justin Pierc e, Stephen Jasper, Chris Hope
and Mohammed Farah
Editor-in-Chief
Tim O’Shannassy
XIV | ABOUT THIS BOOK

[Page 15]
Reviewers
The editors thank the f ollowing reviewer for his f eedback on
this book:
Dr Ying Zhou, Senior Learning & T eaching Spe cialist,
College of Business and Law, RMIT
Copyright
This boo k is pro vided under an AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivs 4.0 International licence except
where otherwise noted.
The RMIT Univ ersity Logo and c over design are ‘all rights
reserved’.
Third-party materials
Where third-party materials are included in this book, we have
made all reasonable efforts to:
• clearly label material where the c opyright is o wned by a
third party; and
• ensure that the c opyright o wner has c onsented to this
material being presented in this textbook.
You should ensure that the c opyright o wners ha ve giv en
permission before reusing these materials.
ABOUT THIS BOOK | XV

[Page 16]
External links
This textbook may include links to third-party websites that
contain copyright protected material. Your access to these sites
will be covered by terms between you and the other operator/
owner of the site. W e are not responsib le f or an y of the
content, including links found on the site. Read and abide b y
the external websites’ terms of use.
Published by
RMIT University Library via RMIT Open Press.
Credits
This open textbook was created by staff of the RMIT
Graduate School of Business and Law with the assistance of
RMIT Library staff.
Cover design
Cover Image: ‘Emily M cPherson Building, RMIT’ b y Tim
O’Shannassy.
Design: Jennifer Hurley.
XVI | ABOUT THIS BOOK

[Page 17]
PREFACE
Welcome to the RMIT Univ ersity, Graduate Schoo l of
Business and La w Strategic M anagement Case Study Series.
The strategic management teaching team in the Graduate
School of Business and La w ha ve dev eloped 14 c ase studies
on a range of Australian and international c orporations in the
semiconductor, retail, mining, airport, a viation, healthc are,
hospitality, financial servic es, property , and building
industries. These case studies have been used by the Graduate
School of Business and La w at RMIT , RMIT Online, and
the Centre f or Business and Human Rights f or teaching and
Executive E ducation. Case study authors include E ditor-inChief Dr Tim O’Shannassy and contributors Dr Justin Pierce,
Dr Stephen Jasper, Mohamed Farah and Chris Hope.

Dr Tim O’Shannassy (PhD, Monash University) is a Senior
Lecturer and the Executive MBA Program Director at RMIT
University in the Graduate Schoo l of Business and La w. Tim
coordinates and teaches strategy c ourses in RMIT Univ ersity
(RMIT) MBA programs, has serv ed in the Ex ecutive MBA
Program Dire ctor ro le sinc e F ebruary 2021, and on the
Graduate School of Business and Law Executive for more than
five years. Tim has served on RMIT Academic Board for seven
PREFACE | XVII

[Page 18]
years. Tim is managing author of the boo k Strategic
Management: The Challenge of Creating V alue (Routle dge
Publishing). He has be en Associate E ditor f or Journal of
Management & Organization sinc e 2012 and serv es on the
Editorial Bo ard of Australian Journal of M anagement, and
Journal of Strategy and M anagement. In 2018 Tim w on the
Associate E ditor Ex cellence A ward from Journal of
Management & Organization and Cambridge Univ ersity
Press. Tim’s research appears in pub lications including
Journal of Business Research, Frontiers in Pub lic P olicy,
Journal of Strategic M arketing, Journal of M anagement &
Organization, Journal of Strategy and M anagement and more
– with strong imp act scores on Google Scho lar (H-Index 13,
880 citations) and Scopus (H-Index 7, 158 citations).

Dr Justin Pierc e is an Associate Prof essor at T orrens
University Australia ’s Business F aculty. Justin w as T orrens
University Australia’s MBA Director, Director of Innovation,
Industry & Emp loyability, Acting Associate Dean, and
supervised Torrens’ first PhD student. Justin serv es on the
Academic Bo ard, and supervises tw elve HDR students.
Outside of Torrens, Justin has w orked with Tim on Strategy
courses at RMIT Univ ersity, and RMIT Univ ersity Vietnam,
where he w as an Adjunct Prof essor. Justin has taught
postgraduate MBA c ourses f or Deakin Univ ersity, Chifley
Business Schoo l, T orrens Univ ersity Australia, RMIT
XVIII | PREFACE

[Page 19]
University, and has guest le ctured at Swinburne Univ ersity,
and the University of Melbourne. He was an Adjunct Senior
Lecturer at the Univ ersity of Southern Que ensland, and
provided e xternal support to SPJain f or their f aculty
development. Justin is a registered TEQSA expert in the areas
of Business and IT Security.

Dr Stephen Jasper is currently an adjunct lecturer at Torrens
University while dev eloping his c onsulting and speaking
engagements as The Jet Lag Guy. Dr Jasper completed his PhD
on this topic at RMIT Univ ersity in 2019 and has more than
eight years experience as an adjunct le cturer teaching a range
of MBA c ourses. Prior to this Dr Jasper had a long c areer
in the p harmaceutioal industry with organizations including
CSL limite d, Sigma Pharmac euticals, Pharmion, A vexa and
GSK. Hir research appears in Frontiers in Pub lic Policy and
Journal of Strategic Marketing.

Mohamed Farah joined the Graduate Schoo l of Business and
Law in 2022 as an Associate Le cturer in Business (MBA
programs) after being affiliate d with the Schoo l sinc e 2018.
Before this appointment, he w as an ac ademic, senior
marketing manager, and management spe cialist with
experience ac ross v arious industries, including Airline/
Aviation, Not-f or-Profit, and Servic e Se ctor. M ohamed
coordinates courses and facilitates accelerated programs in the
PREFACE | XIX

[Page 20]
MBA and Ex ecutive MBA programs at RMIT Univ ersity.
Among the courses, he coordinates include Business Research
Design, Strategy, Digital Entrepreneurship, Leading in the Age
of Digital Disruption and International Strategy . M ohamed
is currently undertaking a Doctor of Philosop hy in P olitical
Science with a spe cial f ocus on go vernance f or sustainab le
development in Somaliland. M ohamed’s research interests
include governance, public policy, peace and state-building in
post-conflict developing countries.

Chris Hope is an Sessional Le cturer at RMIT Univ ersity
and current research student at the Univ ersity of Cambridge.
Chris is the Founder of a non-profit organisation in the mental
health space and has a number of international e xperiences in
both management c onsulting and strategy c onsulting. Chris
teaches Strategy at RMIT Univ ersity and has e xperience
working as an online le cturer with RMIT Online. He
currently consults to the e ducation sector with clients in the
UK, US and Australia and is the author of a childrens boo k
on mental health. In 2019 Chris completed his MBA at RMIT
University and was named a finalist at the Australian Graduate
Management Awards, and name d Humanitarian of the Y ear
at the RMIT Univ ersity A wards. He le d UNICEF’s
#CookforSyria proje ct in M elbourne and a f ood b ank f or
internatonal students during COVID-19.
XX | PREFACE

[Page 21]
RMIT Graduate Schoo l of Business and La w uses the
following text:
Fitzroy, P ., Hulbert, J. and O’Shannass y, T . 2016. Strategic
Management: The Challenge of Creating V alue, 3rd E dition,
Routledge Publishing, London, UK.
To c ompliment this te xt and properly resourc e assessment
tasks the f ollowing c ase studies ha ve be en developed and are
included in this open book:
1. O’Shannassy, T. 2021, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, National Australia Bank.
2. O’Shannassy, T. 2021, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, ANZ Banking Group Limited.
3. O’Shannassy, T. 2021, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, Rio Tinto Limited.
4. O’Shannassy, T. 2021, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, Cochlear Limited.
5. Pierce, J. and O’Shanassy, T,. 2020, 2021, RMIT
University Graduate School of Business and Law
Strategic Management Case Study Series, Myer
Holdings Limited.
6. O’Shannassy, T. 2021, RMIT University Graduate
PREFACE | XXI

[Page 22]
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, Sydney Airport.
7. O’Shannassy, T. 2022, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, Temple & Webster Group Limited.
8. O’Shannassy, T. 2022, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Case Strategic Management
Case Study Series, Cyclone Metals Limited.
9. O’Shannassy, T. 2022, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, Bank of Queensland.
10. O’Shannassy, T. and Pierce, J. 2022, RMIT University
Graduate School of Business and Law Strategic
Management Case Study Series, Endeavour Group
Limited.
11. O’Shannassy, T. 2022, RMIT University Graduate
School of Business and Law Strategic Management Case
Study Series, AV Jennings.
12. O’Shannassy, T. and Pierce, J. 2022, RMIT University
Graduate School of Business and Law Strategic
Management Case Study Series Bendigo and Adelaide
Bank: Environmental, Social, and Economic
Sustainability.
13. O’Shannassy, T. and Hope, C. 2023, RMIT University
Graduate School of Business and Law Strategic
Management Case Study Series, Taiwan Semiconductor
Company Manufacturing Compny Limited.
XXII | PREFACE

[Page 23]
14. O’Shannassy, T, and Jasper, S. 2020, RMIT University
Graduate School of Business and Law Strategic
Management Case Study Series, Mandarin Oriental
Hotel Group Entry into Vietnam.
PREFACE | XXIII

[Page 24]
XXIV | PREFACE

[Page 25]
INTRODUCTION
The essenc e of the c ase study appro ach in strategic
management is the structure of the e xternal environment (or
PESTLE) analysis, the P orter five forces analysis, an appraisal
of the c ompany strategy and status of business units and
functions, and a SW OT analysis that helps to f acilitate
synthesis of the c ase study situation. This then sets y ou up
to c raft re commendations on impro ving shareho lder and
stakeholder value. Think about the corporate level of the firm,
the network level, the business lev el and the functional lev el.
What c an be impro ved? In our RMIT strategy c ourses w e
prefer students attempt five recommendations.
INTRODUCTION | 1

[Page 26]
2 | INTRODUCTION

[Page 27]
1.
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA
BANK: REVIEWING
STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET
THERE
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 3

[Page 28]
Introduction
As NAB Chairperson Mr Philip Chronic an and Chief
Executive Offic er Mr Ross M cEwan c ontemplated their
morning coffee at a f avourite Docklands café near Melbourne
head office – they w ere quite chuffed with the stability of the
Group in 2021 despite all the challenges of the CO VID-19
pandemic and a w eaker net profit result (Gluy as, 2021). The
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has been much gentler on
NAB than was predicted in early 2020, but there is much work
to do in 2021 and beyond (Gottliebsen, 2021).
The “big four” banks have a big influence on the Australian
and New Zealand economies; for example, NAB, ANZ, CBA
and Westpac make up approximately 25 per cent of the weight
of the Australian Stock Ex change (ASX) Top 200 b y market
capitalisation (Neiron, 2020). NAB’s common equity Tier 1
ratio stands at 11.7 per c ent with pre dictions for the o verall
Australian e conomy optimistic f or the future, with the
implication that these favourable economic conditions will not
place stress on NAB’s capital situation. Funds from settlement
for the NAB sale of the MLC w ealth business to IOOF will
further strengthen c apital (Gluy as, 2021). The tw o
Melbourne b ased “big f our” riv als National Australia Bank
(NAB) and ANZ Banking Group Limite d (ANZ) are w eaker
in retail b anking operations than their Sy dney riv als
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) and W estpac
Banking Corporation (Westpac) (Fullerton, 2021), in what is
4 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 29]
an intensely c ompetitive industry. NAB ne eds to address this
and a slip in its cost to income ratio in 2020.
Chronican and M cEwan reflected on this c ost to inc ome
ratio issue, and the status of NAB’s p lay f or Australian
neobank 86 400 – a transaction that will giv e NAB ac cess
to more millennial and y oung customers. Inf ormation
technology and the te chnology e xperience w as no w a key
competitive issue in b anking and NAB ne ed retail market
share, and must giv e their customers a quality customer
experience – including a quality te chnology e xperience that
rivals the technology experiences of customers on social media
(Yeates, 2021). They discuss how UBank can help with that.
The Business Environment in
the 2020-2021 Pandemic
The “four pillars po licy” was developed by the Ha wke Labor
Government in 1990 with the obje ctive of preventing further
mergers between The M elbourne-based NAB and ANZ and
the Sydney-based Westpac and CBA. The “four pillars policy”
is not regulation but a f ormal po licy from the po liticians.
Motivation for the “four pillars policy” at the time in the 1990s
was the difficult task c onfronting ANZ, W estpac and CBA
coping with significant credit impairments following the share
market crash of 1987 and the high interest rate en vironment
of the early 1990s. The view of the Australian Go vernment at
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 5

[Page 30]
the time was that four strong banking rivals acting as “pillars”
for the Australian e conomy would help prev ent the risk of a
round of take over activity allo wing the animal spirits of the
sharemarket to potentially destabilise the pro vision of c redit
and the protection of savings (Ellis, 2016).
The Australian e conomy is doing better than e xpected in
2021 after a difficult 2020 in which Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) fell 3.8 per cent (Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2021).
The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cash rate is at an historic
low of 0.10 per c ent (Australian T reasury, 2021) with
Australian Federal Government debt at $811 billion (W right,
2021). Australia ’s GDP is f orecast to gro w 3.5 per c ent per
annum in 2021 (International monetary Fund, 2021). NAB
economists expect the Australian e conomy to re cover its prepandemic M arch 2020 lev el in the M arch quarter of 2021
(Gluyas, 2021), despite the likely withdra wal of JobKe eper
which has be en a lif eline f or many small, me dium and large
enterprises – and their employees (Gottliebsen, 2021).
Australia has a c omparatively high c orporate tax rate at 30
per cent, compared with the 28 per cent rate for New Zealand
and 21 per cent in the United States. In New Zealand overseas
corporates are taxed on what they earn in New Zealand, while
New Zealand b ased c orporates are tax ed on their glob al
earnings.
Social me dia is ha ving an imp act on the b anking se ctor,
with millennial and more y outhful customers e xpecting their
banking experience to be comparable to their other experiences
6 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 31]
on social me dia, and also ha ving a greater prep aredness to
change their b ank than their p arent’s generation (Y eates,
2021). CO VID-19 has ac celerated customer use of digital
banking putting at risk b ank branches in smaller c ountry
towns around Australia; politicians continue to lobby the “big
four” not to close these regional b ank branches in the f ace of
an overall 11 per cent reduction in country bank branches over
the past four years (Lynch, 2021)
Technology is ev olving with a number of imp acts in this
industry (W ade et al., 2020), including the importanc e of
technology s ystems and online p latforms which c an giv e
players such as NAB an e dge competing f or market share
(Yeates, 2021). There has also be en a greater fre quency of
attempted fraud and cyber-attacks (ANZ, 2020).
The Australian Se curities and In vestment Commission
(ASIC) and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority
(APRA) and oversee the financial scene, the ASX and merger
and ac quisition activity . The Australian Competition and
Consumer Commission o versees trade practic es. The
Corporations Act 2001 sets out the la ws in Australia that
apply to c orporations and duties of dire ctors. The
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 sets out la w in relation
to competition and fair trading, and consumer protections.
Climate change and emissions targets are an important
focus of attention for many corporations in a range of industry
sectors including the b anking se ctor. The Business Council
of Australia (BCA) is enc ouraging the M orrison Liberal
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 7

[Page 32]
Government to make a statement of go als on emissions and
with focus on new te chnologies including h ydrogen, ele ctric
cars and grid reliability (Gluy as, 2020). President Biden’s
election in the United States may result in a policy revisit from
the Morrison Government (Kehoe, 2021).
Banking and Finance Industry
Trends
Banking and financ e is about being an interme diary with
money. The industry re cipe for success is business gro wth in
loans and deposits, c redit quality, c ost c ontrol and superior
margins. It is possib le for disruptive technology to appeal to
a p articular market segment (e.g. millennials) ho wever
endeavours in this area alone ma y not deliv er comprehensive
impact in all market segments (Yeates, 2021).
There is strong riv alry in the b anking and finance industry
in a number of areas including customer demograp hics,
product, customer service, information technology and social
media app lications. The “big f our” b anks are signific ant
economic entities that make a substantial c ontribution to
Australia’s GDP and the composition of the ASX Top 200.
There is an inf ormation te chnology rac e in progress in
banking and financ e with signific ant financial budget
committed by industry players (ANZ, 2020). Providers to the
banking and financ e industry include softw are dev elopers,
8 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 33]
systems engine ers, human resourc e c ontractors, pro viders of
legal servic es, pro viders of ac counting servic es. real estate
valuers and brand v aluers. The “big f our” ha ve due to their
scale of operations signific ant market po wer including the
ability to negotiate price and specify a level of product and/or
service quality.
The Australian economy – and the New Zealand e conomy
– obtain signific ant benefit from the stability and strength
offered by the “f our pillars” NAB, ANZ, CBA and W estpac
that in the view of po licy makers outw eigh c riticism of
governance protections and what is seen by sum of duplication
of c ompetition (Ryan, 2018). This c riticism ne eds to be
carefully b alanced b y the rich lessons of boom and bust in
economic history – including Australian e conomic history –
in moments when the “animal spirits” of capitalism have been
allowed to run free (Ellis, 2016).
A number of smaller new entrants have emerged recently in
the Australian banking and finance industry usually associated
with a p articular te chnology; p layers here include NAB’s
recent ac quisition 86 400 and also Douugh, Judo , Rev olut,
Volt and the f ailed Xinja. The buy no w p ay later (BNPL)
market has dra wn the interest of millennials with Afterp ay
a leading emerging business (Y eates, 2021). CBA re cently
purchased 5 per c ent of Klarna the Sw edish BNPL pro vider
which has enjo yed f avourable gro wth in the Unite d States
market (Yeates, 2021).
The millennial customer is pro viding an interesting
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 9

[Page 34]
challenge for the “big four” banks as millennials have a higher
propensity to switch b anking relationship than their p arent’s
generation. The BNPL trend and the popularity of Afterp ay
has also shaken up the industry . It is not only inno vative
solutions servicing a p articular demograp hic or off ering a
particular te chnology ha ving an imp act here but also
innovative p hilosophies – the Australian ne obanks domain.
Interest from institutional in vestors in bitcoin is currently on
the rise, which presents an interesting challenge f or ASIC and
the “big f our” (E yers, 2021). Blockchain is in early
developmental stages (Pollock, 2019).
Different market segments (e.g. retail, business b anking,
institutional) ha ve diff erent buy er po wer. Millennials and
Generation Z c onsumers do not ha ve the same customer and
brand lo yalty to the “big f our” b anks e xhibited b y their
parents. Y ounger b ank customers c ompare their online
banking experience to their other online e xperiences and this
informs their e xpectations (Y eates, 2021). Institutions
including CBA are aware of these social trends and in response
and spending heavily on their online offering while setting out
to personalise this online off ering for their customers (Yeates,
2021).
10 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 35]
National Australia Bank
Strategic Situation
The National Australia Bank
Strategy
In 2020 NAB updated its strategic ambition stating:
Our customers and c olleagues are where w e’ll focus
our investment. Serving them well means being:
▪ Relationship led: building on market-leading
banking expertise, data and insights.
▪ Easy: an easier, more seamless and digitally
enabled bank that gets things done faster.
▪ Safe: protecting customers and colleagues
through financial and operational resilience.
▪ Long term: delivering sustainable outcomes
for our customers, colleagues and
communities (NAB, 2020a: 11).
Strategic priorities include de epening relations with our
current customers, attracting new customers, impro ving the
customer e xperience, impro ving c olleague engagement,
improving the digital offering, controlling costs and improving
shareholder returns (NAB, 2020a). NAB does not intend to
make changes to the portf olio of businesses bey ond possibly
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 11

[Page 36]
adding smaller ac quisitions, or div esting non-c ore activities
(NAB, 2020b).
Key measures of suc cess include return on e quity, c ash
earnings per share and strategic net promoter sc ore as NAB
strives to be inno vative, f ast and de cisive f or the customer,
delivering personalised experiences and realising great value for
the customer (data, analytics, e xpertise). UBank is se en as an
important v ehicle f or new customer ac quisition (NAB,
2020b).
Functional Level Insights at
National Australia Bank
NAB operates a netw ork of greater than 850 branches, with
nine million customers and greater than 639,000 shareho lders
(NAB, 2020b).
The operational structure of the Group w as redesigned in
2020 to refle ct the restating of strategic ambition and the
greater f ocus on the digital off ering, inc reasing emp hasis on
UBank and Strategy & Innovation (NAB, 2020a).
NAB operates the following divisions:
• Personal Banking service and support network providing
home loans, personal loans, term deposits
• Business and Private Banking focusing on servicing
small and medium size businesses
• Corporate and Institutional Banking including
12 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 37]
specialised product and industry relationship teams
• New Zealand Banking across the consumer, small and
medium size business, corporate and institutional
markets including wealth and insurance business under
the Bank of New Zealand brand
• Corporate Functions and Other business including
UBank, Strategy & Innovation, Technology and
Enterprise Operations, Treasury, Support Units and
Eliminations (NAB, 2020b).
NAB has w orked hard to assist its customers during the
2020-2021 pandemic deferring over 110,000 home lo ans and
over 38,000 business loans. Further support has been provided
including financial c oaching, c ourses to help customers set
their businesses up online, and free counselling services (NAB,
2020b).
During the p andemic uptake of internet b anking has
increased with o ver 90 per c ent of customers activ e in this
medium (NAB, 2020a).
In the period since September 2017 the number of products
offered to customers has declined to 411 from 600 previously,
while over the c ounter transactions are do wn 47 per c ent. In
the same time period digital c onsumer product sales increased
to 65 per cent from 31 per cent (NAB, 2020b).
NAB is Australia ’s biggest agribusiness lender and has
recently c ommenced closing regional b ank branches as
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 13

[Page 38]
COVID-19 has influenc ed customers to do their b anking
online (Lynch, 2021).
NAB was one of the first b anks to sign on to Bank@P ost
which re quires a $22 million f ee or a c ommunity
representation f ee f or ac cess to 3500 post offic es (L ynch,
2021).
NAB’s strategic obje ctive is simp le products and customer
experiences. Inno vation will p lay a key ro le in this outc ome
given the importanc e of the digital e xperience f or the
customer. The Group has recently made a strategic investment
in 1,697 jobs to emp loy c apability in w orkplace te chnology
and network services (NAB, 2020b). Over the past three years
NAB has in vested appro ximately $300 million in managing
financial crime risk with more than 1,000 emp loyees working
in this area (NAB, 2020b). NAB is conscious that its rivals are
spending strongly in this area and that this is an important
competitive space (Moullakis, 2021).
Summary financial inf ormation e xtracted from the 2020
NAB Annual Financial Report is provided in Table 1 below. It
has been a difficult year for NAB with a deterioration in other
income, operating e xpenses and c redit impairment. Statutory
net profit is do wn 46.6 per c ent at $2.56 billion (2019 $4.80
billion) with dividend per share w ell do wn at $0.60 in 2020
(2019 $1.66). Cash earnings were $3.71 billion down 36.6 per
cent on 2019. There has be en a clear deterioration in the c ost
to inc ome ratio during this difficult time imp acted b y
COVID-19, bushfires and severe drought.
14 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 39]
Table 1: NAB Group Financial Summary Y ears 2019 and
2020 (NAB, 2020b)
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 15

[Page 40]
2019
A$Million
A$Million
+ or –
% Change
Balance Sheet
Summary
Total assets 847,124 866,565 2.3
Total liabilities 791,520 805,272 1.7
Total equity 55,604 61,293 10.2
Income Statement
Highlights Operating
Revenue
Net interest income 13,555 13,877 2.4
Other income 3,980 3,384 -15.0
Operating expenses (8,263) (9,346) 13.1
Credit impairment
charge (927) (2,752) 196.9
Profit before income
tax 8,345 5,163 -38.1
Income tax expense (2,440) (1,665) -31.8
Net profit from
continuing operations 5,905 3,498 -40.8
Net loss from
discontinued operations (1,104) (935) -15.3
Net profit for the year 4,801 2,563 -46.6
Earnings per share (cents)
– basic 168.6 82.1
Dividend per share
(cents) 166 60
16 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 41]
2019
A$Million
A$Million
+ or –
% Change
Common Equity Tier 1
ratio 10.38% 11.47%
Tier 1 ratio 12.36% 13.20%
90+ days past due and
gross impaired assets to
gross loans and
acceptances
0.93% 1.03%
*These results include large notab le items (ref er NAB 2020b ,
Financial Report, p. 14)
NAB has o ver 34,000 emp loyees. NAB is currently taking
action to address w eakness in its emp loyee culture identifie d
in the Ro yal Commission into Misc onduct in the Banking,
Superannuation and Financial Servic es Industry and the
APRA self-assessment; this is ongoing (NAB, 2020b).
This workforce moved fast to adjust to working from home
during the pandemic within a period of three weeks; employees
received up to 10 da ys pandemic leave as w ell as support f or
carer responsibilities and wellbeing (NAB, 2020b).
NAB endeavoured to keep as many branches open wherever
possible with emp loyees a vailable to help customers when
possible (NAB, 2020b). Closure of rural b ank branches has
created community concern for job losses, ho wever NAB has
indicated they will work with their staff on new opportunities
including online, p hone or vide o customer servic e (L ynch,
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 17

[Page 42]
2021). The branch f ootprint will likely re ceive further
refinement in 2021.
There were a number of changes to the Bo ard and Senior
Leadership T eam in 2020 including the high profile
resignations of Mr Mike Baird the f ormer Chief Customer
Officer – Consumer Banking and f emale dire ctor Ms
Geraldine M cBride. New re cruits to the Bo ard and Senior
Leadership team include Mr Nathan Goonan who starte d as
Group Executive Strategy & Inno vation in June 2020 (NAB,
2020b).
Since September 2017 the Group has set out to re duce
6,000 e xisting jobs and c reate 2,000 new jobs in areas that
reflect the greater emp hasis on te chnology and the customer.
In total 1,638 new jobs ha ve be en created in areas including
compliance, data, analytics and customer servic e (NAB,
2020b).
The Future Strategy
Challenge
This is a crucial moment in the evolution and history of NAB
with its current f ocus on ac celerating its strategy in a highly
competitive and challenging c ontext. NAB has a delic ate
strategy balancing act, ne eding to c onsider the long term and
short term ne eds of shareho lders plus the ne eds of customers
and communities (NAB, 2020b).
18 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 43]
There are a number of c ritical strategy questions to
consider. Does NAB ha ve its strategic ambition right? Is the
accelerated strategy enough in 2021 and bey ond in the
medium term? Is strategic in vestment in inf ormation
technology enough? Are the higher c redit imp airments in
2020 a short term concern or a medium term concern? Is NAB
doing enough to address w eaknesses in its culture identifie d
in the Ro yal Commission into Misc onduct in the Banking,
Superannuation and Financial Servic es Industry and APR A
self-assessment? Ho w does NAB’s c ost to inc ome ratio
compare with riv als ANZ, CBA and W estpac? How can the
cost to income ratio for NAB be improved? What changes will
be made to the branch f ootprint of NAB? What will be the
fate of rural NAB branches? Is NAB doing enough in climate
change and sustainability?

References
ANZ Banking Group Limite d, 2020, Annual Report ,
Melbourne, Australia.
Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2021, Australian National
Accounts: National inc ome, Expenditure and Product,
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/economy/nationalaccounts/australiannational-accounts-national-incomeNATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 19

[Page 44]
expenditure-and-product/latest-release, downloaded 12
February 2021.
Australian T reasury, 2021, Economic Response to t he
Coronavirus, https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/businessinvestment, downloaded 12 February 2021.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2001, Corporations A ct,
Canberra ACT.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2010, Competition a nd
Consumer Act, Canberra, ACT
Ellis, L. 2016. Booms, busts, c ycles and risk appetite,
Financial Ris k Da y Conferenc e, 18 M arch,
https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2016/spso-2016-03-18.html, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Eyers, J. 2021. ASIC open to bitcoin-linked ETF listing, The
Australian Financial Review, 13-14 February, p. 8.
Fullerton, T. 2021. ANZ’s mo ve on ME Bank to test rules
over big four deals, The Australian, 3 February, p. 13.
Gottliebsen, R. 2021. Generous JobKe eper fuelling labour
shortage, The Australian, March 10, p.20.
Gluyas, R. 2020. ‘Call to end 10-year war over climate’, The
Weekend Australian, June 27-28, p. 22.
Gluyas, R. 2021. ASIC wields the big stick: The watchdog is
getting tough with financial p lanners, The Australian, M arch
10, p. 20.
Kehoe, J. 2021. Biden’s Senate win is a climate alert f or
Morrison, The Australian Financial Review, 8 January, p. 39.
International M onetary Fund, 2021, Australia,
20 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 45]
https://www.imf.org/en/Countries/AUS, downloaded 12
February 2021.
Lynch, J. 2021. NAB ax es branches in rural e xodus, The
Weekend Australian, 6 February, p. 22.
Moullakis, J. 2021. Big Tech boosting costs for banking, The
Australian, 3 February, p, 17.
National Australia Bank, 2020a, Annual Revi ew,
Melbourne, Australia.
National Australia Bank, 2020b , Annual Financial Report,
Melbourne, Australia.
Neiron, A. 2017. Bank levy highlights S&P/ASX 200
concentration risk, V anEck Australia Pty Ltd, 15 M ay,
https://www.vaneck.com.au/bank-levy-highlightsconcentration-risk, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Pollock, D. 2019. The future of banking: Is it all bitcoin and
blockchain? F orbes, 25 July , https://www.forbes.com/sites/
darrynpollock/2019/07/25/the-future-of-banking-is-itallbitcoin-and-blockchain/?sh=3318a7431eb9, downloaded
12 February 2021.
Ryan, P. 2018. ‘Four pillars’ banking policy is ‘ad hoc’ and
‘redundant’, Productivity Commission w arns, ABC News, 7
February, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-02-07/
productivitycommission-warns-four-pillars-banking-policyadhoc/
9402742#:~:text=The%20four%20pillars%20policy%20was,m
aintain%20a%20competitiv e%20banking%20market,
downloaded 11 February 2021.
NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC AMBITION
AND HOW TO GET THERE | 21

[Page 46]
Wade, B., Topalova, Y., Boutin, N., Jhunjhunwala, P., Loh,
H., von Oertzen, T., Ukon, M. and Wise,
A., 2020. Seven trends that will reshape the airline industry,
Boston Consulting Group, 9 January, https://www.bcg.com/
en-au/publications/2020/seven-trends-reshapeairlineindustry, downloaded 4 November 2020.
Wright, S. 2021. Recovery ‘locked-in’, with ballooning debt,
The Age, 12 February 2021, p. 5.
Yeates, C. 2021. NAB chases y ounger clients in 86 400
buyout, The Age Business, 30 January, p. 2.
22 | NATIONAL AUSTRALIA BANK: REVIEWING STRATEGIC
AMBITION AND HOW TO GET THERE

[Page 47]
2.
ANZ BANKING GROUP
LIMITED: MERGERS,
ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR
COST CONTROL
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 23

[Page 48]
Introduction
Shane Elliot was chosen to be Chief Executive Officer of ANZ
Banking Group Limite d (ANZ) from a strong field of
candidates in 2016. W ith the Co vid-19 p andemic raging,
former Chairperson Da vid Gonski re cently retire d and new
Chairperson P aul O’Sulliv an no w leading the bo ard of
directors (BOD) Elliot now has much to ponder.
There is a lot f or Elliot to c onsider. He has re ceived
tremendous support and mentoring from Gonski, and they
formed a po werful team. No w he ne eds to present to an
O’Sullivan led board a compelling strategy agenda for ANZ for
the next five years and beyond that will reinforce the enduring
theme of his tenure.
Market analysts ha ve identifie d that both ANZ and riv al
National Australia Bank (NAB) – the tw o Melbourne-based
banks of the “big f our” – are w eaker in retail b anking than
their Sy dney riv als Westpac Banking Corporation (W estpac)
and Common wealth Bank of Australia (CBA) (Fullerton,
2021). Elliot has w eighed up the organic gro wth prospe cts
of ANZ and has re ceived advic e from his e xecutive team on
the option of ac quisition and merger of regional lender ME
Bank. Meantime NAB Chief Executive Officer Ross McEwan
is focused on the purchase of Australian ne obank 86 400 – a
transaction giving NAB ac cess to more millennial and y oung
customers while remo ving another start up financial servic es
business from the market.
24 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 49]
Banking and financ e is an intensely c ompetitive industry
that makes a signific ant c ontribution to Australia ’s gross
domestic product (GDP), with the “big f our” c omprising
approximately 25 per c ent of the w eight of the Australian
Stock Exchange (ASX) Top 200 market capitalisation (Neiron,
2020).
The two leading profit c entres for ANZ in 2020 w ere the
Australian retail and c ommercial operating segment
contributing A$3.339 billion (2019 A$4.653 billion) profit
before tax, and institutional A$2.579 billion (2019 A$2.607
billion) profit bef ore tax. In 2020 New Zealand operations
contributed A$1.424 billion (2019 A$1.943 billion) of the
A$5.516 billion Group profit bef ore tax. P acific operations
delivered a A$64 million loss (2019 A$83 million profit)
(ANZ, 2020).
Trends in the e xternal en vironment and the industry
environment provide both an opportunity and a threat. The
Covid-19 p andemic has had a big imp act on the ANZ
customer b ase with the Australian Go vernment Job keeper
program keeping employees connected to employers while the
business community and population copes with the pandemic
threat. Interest rates are at an historic lo w and adv ances in
technology are leading to inno vation in the financial servic es
industry.
An Uncertain Business
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 25

[Page 50]
Environment in the 2020
Pandemic
In the early months of 2020 the CO VID-19 p andemic had
a strong adv erse e conomic imp act around the w orld;
COVID-19 required many countries to introduce restrictions
on w ork and the mo vement of pe ople, while international
borders w ere close d in c ountries such as Australia and New
Zealand.
Climate change and a gre ener future is an inc reasing
concern of the Australian c ommunity. The M orrison
Government has not embrac ed long range emissions targets
and/or a pric e on c arbon as a market-b ased so lution to
managing emissions, though there has be en an ev olution of
debate in Australia with the ele ction of Joe Biden as President
of the United States (Kehoe, 2021).
In 2021 the populations of the United States, the European
Union, Brazil, Russia, South Afric a and more than 200
nations around the world continue to struggle with high rates
of COVID-19 inf ection and death. This is imp acting w orld
GDP in 2020 in the range -4.5 per c ent to -6.0 per c ent with
a p artial re covery in the range 2.5 per c ent to 5.2 per c ent
expected in 2021 (Congressional Research Service, 2021).
Australia’s GDP fell 3.8 per c ent in 2020 including a 7 per
cent f all in the M arch-June quarter of 2020, f ollowed b y an
increase of 3.3 in the June to September quarter (Australian
26 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 51]
Bureau of Statistics, 2021). As p art of the Australian
Government’s response to the p andemic e conomic support
was pro vided to the c ommunity through a portf olio of
programs including Job keeper, Jobse eker, Homebuilder, the
coronavirus small and me dium size enterprise lo an guarantee
scheme alongside Reserv e Bank of Australia (RBA) action to
support the flo w of c redit. This RBA action include d
establishing a A$200 billion term funding f acility with an
interest rate of 0.25 per c ent to support the b anking system.
The RBA c ash rate is at 0.10 per c ent (Australian T reasury,
2021). The Australian Go vernment has f orecast a deficit of
A$198 billion in the current fisc al y ear, with F ederal
Government debt at $811 billion (W right, 2021). Australia ’s
GDP is e xpected to gro w at 3.5 per c ent per annum in 2021
with inflation below the RBA target b and of 2-3 per c ent per
annum at 1.3 per cent (International Monetary Fund, 2021).
The “f our pillars po licy” w as adopte d b y the Ha wke
Government in 1990 to prev ent any further mergers betw een
ANZ, NAB, W estpac and CBA – this is f ormal po licy b y
politicians, not regulation. A key influenc e on this w as the
stress on the b anking and finance industry in the early 1990s
and lessons learned on the need for sound capital management
and stability in this vital industry – at the time in business
history ANZ, W estpac and CBA w ere ha ving to manage
significant c redit imp airment prob lems which c aused
economic instability impacting a generation of entrepreneurs.
Social me dia is ha ving a signific ant imp act no w on
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 27

[Page 52]
commerce. M ore y outhful customers will be more likely to
compare their online b anking e xperience with their other
online e xperiences and be prep ared to change their b ank
(Yeates, 2021).
Technology is continuing to evolve and is having a number
of impacts in the b anking and financ e industry (W ade et al.,
2020), including the influenc e of te chnology s ystems and
online p latforms giving a c ompetitive e dge as riv als c ompete
for market share (Y eates, 2021). There is also a greater
incidence of attempted fraud and cyber-attacks (ANZ, 2020).
Banking and Finance Industry
Trends
This is an intensely c ompetitive industry – on a number of
fronts (e.g. demograp hics of customers, inf ormation
technology, product, customer servic e) – that makes a
significant contribution to Australia’s gross domestic product
(GDP). There are signific ant benefits to the Australian
economy (and the New Zealand e conomy) from the strength
and stability offered by the “big f our” banks that in the view
of po licy makers on b alance outw eigh the c riticisms of
duplication of competition and governance protections in the
law (Ryan, 2018). Rich experience from the booms and busts
of the Australian e conomy ha ve inf ormed po licy makers
choices not to allow complete free reign to the “animal spirits”
28 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 53]
of capitalism in Australian b anking and finance (Ellis, 2016),
hence “four pillars”.
Another trend in the b anking and financ e se ctor in
Australia is the emergenc e of the popular Afterp ay – the buy
now pay later (BNPL) market has proven to be quite attractive
to millennials (Yeates, 2021). CBA ha ve purchased 5 per c ent
of the Sw edish BNPL pro vider Klarna which has enjo yed
strong growth in the United States (Yeates, 2021).
This industry is about being an interme diary with money
– strong performance is traditionally associate d with business
growth in lo ans and deposits, better c ost c ontrol and better
margins. Disruptive technology can appeal to segments of the
broader market (e.g. millennials) but ma y not deliv er on all
of these desirable outcomes for a comprehensive performance
(Yeates, 2021).
Youthful customers want innovative solutions and have less
brand lo yalty to a “big f our” pro vider c ompared with their
parents. Afterpay and the trend to BNPL has really shaken up
the banking and finance sector. This opens this industry sector
to inno vative so lutions including inno vative p hilosophies –
the market domain of the Australian neobanks. The “big four”
have sho wn an appetite to ac quire interesting emerging
businesses with the most re cent e xample the NAB purchase
of 86 400. Institutional investor interest in bitcoin is currently
surging, presenting an interesting future challenge for the “big
four” and ASIC (E yers, 2021), while b lockchain is in its early
stages of development (Pollock, 2019).
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 29

[Page 54]
A number of smaller p layers or ne obanks have emerged in
the banking and finance industry in Australia in recent years to
challenge the “big four”, either with a niche offering associated
with digital off ering or a p articular c onnection to a region
or demograp hic. They include 86 400 ac quired b y NAB,
Douugh, Judo, Revolut, Volt and the f ailed Xinja. Threat of
new entrants is real.
There are diff erent segments to this market – retail
customers, business b anking customers and institutional
customers. Millennials and Generation Z c onsumers are not
affiliated with the “big f our’ like their p arents ha ve be en, a
generational shift in financial servic es is in progress. W e are
seeing that younger bank customers will compare their online
banking experience with their other online e xperiences and be
prepared to change their b ank (Yeates, 2021). Institutions like
CBA are a ware of these trends and in vesting heavily in their
online offering and seeking to personalise this offering for their
customers (Yeates, 2021).
There is a b ank inf ormation te chnology rac e in progress
with substantial financial resourc es committed (ANZ, 2020).
A number of pro viders to this industry including human
resource c ontractors, softw are dev elopers, s ystems engine ers,
real estate v aluers, brand v aluers, pro viders of legal servic es
and pro viders of ac counting servic es. The “big f our” ha ve
tremendous market po wer here with sc ope to negotiate on
price and ask f or a re quisite level of quality and talent giv en
their substantial scale of operations and purchasing power.
30 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 55]
Banking and Finance Industry
Law and Regulation
In Australia the Australian Prudential Authority and the
Australian Se curities and In vestment Commission (ASIC)
oversee the financial scene, merger and acquisition activity, and
the ASX. F oreign in vestment in Australia is o verseen b y the
Australian Foreign Investment Review Bo ard; trade practic es
are o verseen b y the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission.
In New Zealand the Reserv e Bank of New Zealand, the
Securities Commission of New Zealand and NZX o versee the
New Zealand Stock Exchange and the financial scene. In New
Zealand the Foreign Investment Review Board has oversight of
foreign investment in on behalf of the Government.
In Australia The Corporations Act 2001 and sets out the
laws that app ly to c orporations, including the duties of
directors. The Competition and Consumer Act 2010 sets out
competition and f air trading la w, and prote ctions f or
consumers.
In New Zealand The Comp anies Act 1983 set out la ws
that app ly to c orporations including the duties of dire ctors.
The New Zealand Commerc e Commission is responsib le for
enforcing the Fair Trading Act 1986, the Commerce Act 1986,
plus the Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act 2003.
The company tax rate in Australia is 30 per c ent, in New
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 31

[Page 56]
Zealand 28 per c ent, compared to the Unite d States at 21 per
cent. New Zealand c orporates are tax ed on inc ome earne d
globally, while overseas corporates are taxed on income earned
in New Zealand.
A further legal and regulatory c onsideration is stronger
stakeholder sc rutiny and c ommunity e xpectations of b ank
executives and company directors (ANZ, 2020).
ANZ Banking Group Limited
Strategic Situation
ANZ pro vides b anking and financial products and servic es
in 33 markets to more than 8.5 million customers in retail
banking, business b anking and institutional b anking. ANZ
explain their purpose as:
Our purpose is to help shape a world in which people
and communities thrive. That is why we strive to create
a b alanced, sustainab le society in which ev eryone c an
take part and build a better life (ANZ, 2020, p. 10).
A re cent c oncern f or ANZ is loss of market share in
mortgages and household deposits (Fullerton, 2021).
ANZ states its vision is as follows:
Our vision is to build a b ank of which w e can all be
proud – whether y ou are a customer, a shareho lder or
an employee – known for:
32 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 57]
◦ delivering value from innovative and convenient
banking services that help customers get ahead in
life – improving their financial wellbeing
◦ building the best and most diverse team of people,
regardless of where they ultimately work
◦ showing leadership on important issues, and doing
the right thing, even when it comes at a cost
◦ delivering consistently strong financial results for
our shareholders, with a balance between growth
and return, short-and long-term results (ANZ,
2020, p. 11)
ANZ se e their v alues as the f oundation on which the
organisation works. They articulate their values as:
1. Integrity
2. Collaboration
3. Accountability
4. Respect
5. Excellence (ANZ, 2020, p. 10)
ANZ brings its purpose to lif e by helping to reso lve complex
social and c ommunity issues including financial w ellbeing,
environmental sustainability , and impro ving suitab le and
affordable housing options f or Australian and New Zealand
customers.
ANZ has a Code of Conduct with which all employees and
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 33

[Page 58]
contractors must c omply (ANZ, 2020) although there ha ve
been some well publicised misadventures with senior executive
behaviour in the not too distant p ast (Wh yte, Shapiro ,
Thompson, Moullakis, 2016).
ANZ also takes seriously the re cruitment, training,
development and engagement of their w orkforce with a
substantial time and financial c ommitment to training each
year (ANZ, 2020),
ANZ is c ommitted to the Unite d Nations Sustainab le
Development Go als (SDGs) supporting 11 of the 17 SDGs
(ANZ, 2020).
Shareholder v alue is also a high priority with a business
target of “decent returns” to allo w shareholders to me et their
personal goals (ANZ, 2020, p. 13).
Functional Level
The ANZ b alance she et, inc ome statement and c ash flo w
summary in T able 1 belo w e xhibits the characteristics of a
banking and servic es business with its f ocus on utilising
liabilities including deposits, deriv atives and debt issuanc es to
create assets in net lo ans and adv ances, investment se curities
and derivatives to earn interest income and other income.
The 2020 financial result presented to share market analysts
by Chief Ex ecutive Offic er (CEO) Shane Elliot w as
disappointing but not surprising giv en the difficulties c aused
by Co vid-19. Operating inc ome w as lo wer while operating
34 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 59]
expenses w ere up slightly in 2020; total e quity w as do wn
slightly.
Operating e xpenses include d personnel A$4.878 billion
(2019 A$4.765 billion), premises A$789 million (2019 $719
million), technology A$1.824 billion (2019 A$1.534 billion),
restructuring A$161 million (2019 A$77 million), and
professional fees A$667 million (2020 A$537 million) (ANZ,
2020).
ANZ tax expense in 2020 w as well down at A$1.84 billion
(2019 A$2.609 billion) due to the re duction in profit bef ore
income tax. Basic earnings per share and the annual dividend
were also w ell do wn, mainly refle cting re duced profit bef ore
credit imp airment p lus the imp act of the greater c redit
impairment charge (ANZ, 2020).
Strong stakeho lder relationships are good f or the
community and the ANZ brand. The ambition of ANZ is
to provide a great, personalised customer experience including
improving the financial w ellbeing of ANZ customers,
leveraging digital infrastructure. Advertising and pub lic
relations e xpense w as c ontained in 2020 at A$177 million
compared with A$226 million in 2019 (ANZ, 2020). The
digital offering is an important element of the ANZ brand
reach to c onsumers, y oung and o ld as it se eks to impro ve
performance in household deposits and mortgages (Fullerton,
2021). The maintenance of a right sized retail branch network
in the right locations is also a key element of the marketing and
operations strategy.
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 35

[Page 60]
Lending is pro vided to retail, business b anking and
institutional b anking customers in Australia, New Zealand
and the P acific. ANZ retains an interest in doing business in
Asia with 4,000 emp loyees, 324 automatic teller machines
(ATMs) and 93 branches in 15 markets (ANZ, 2020), however
the aggressiv e Asia strategy pursue d under f ormer Chief
Executive Officer Mike Smith has be en paired back to a more
selective approach (Patrick, 2016).
In relation to te chnology and data c apabilities ANZ is
giving emp hasis to fle xible, digital ready infrastructure to
deliver a quality customer e xperience (ANZ, 2020). Systems
and processes that allo w customers to do se cure transactions
efficiently and ac curately aid risk management (ANZ 2020).
To help achiev e this outc ome ANZ re cruited 500 softw are
and s ystems engine ers in 2020 with a view to strengthening
capability in engineering and data (ANZ, 2020). The banking
sector is spending heavily in this area (Moullakis, 2021); ANZ
pend on subscriptions licences and outsourced services in 2020
was A$780 million c ompared with A$672 million in 2019
(ANZ 2020).

Table 1: ANZ Banking Group Limite d Financial Summary
Financial Years 2019 and 2020 (ANZ, 2020)
36 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 61]
2019
(A$Million)
(A$Million)
+ or –
%
Change
Balance Sheet
Summary
Total assets 981,137 1,042,286 +6%
Total liabilities 920,343 980,989 +7%
Total equity 60,794 61,297 +1%
Income Statement
Highlights
Operating Revenue
Interest income 31,077 24,426 -21%
Interest expense (16,738) (10,377) -38%
Net interest income 14,339 14,049 -2%
Other operating
income 4,058 3,355 -17.3%
Net income from
insurance business 126 78 -38%
Share of associates’
profit 262 155 -40.8%
Operating income 18,785 17,637 -6.1%
Operating expenses (9,071) (9,383) 3.4%
Profit before credit
impairment and
income tax
9,714 8,254 -15%
Credit impairment
charge (794) (2,738) +245%
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 37

[Page 62]
2019
(A$Million)
(A$Million)
+ or –
%
Change
Profit before income
tax 8,920 5,516
Earnings per ordinary
share from continuing
operations (basic)
210.0 126.4
Dividend per ordinary
share (cents) 160 60
Cash Flow Summary
Net cash flows from
operating activities (4,550) 52,284
Net cash flow from
investing activities (206) (11,465)
Net cash flow from
financing activities (2,761) (12,434)
Net
(decrease)/increase in
cash and cash
equivalents
(7,517) 28,385
Cash and cash
equivalents at
beginning of year
84,964 81,621
Effects of exchange
rates on cash and cash
equivalents
4,174 (2.083)
Cash and cash
equivalents end of
year
81,621 107,923 +32%
38 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 63]
*Cost-to-income ratio is c alculated b y dividing operating
expenses by operating income

ANZ c ontinues to dev elop its w orkforce, culture,
behaviours and capabilities while keeping employees Covid-19
safe. ANZ has had signific ant challenges with poor senior
executive behaviour in the past (Whyte et al., 2016). A range of
responses has been developed and implemented to provide the
right support for the different challenges of employees who are
customer-facing and emp loyees who are w orking from home
(ANZ, 2020).
Employee engagement and dev elopment of w orkforce
capability are important priorities f or ANZ. Appro ximately
970,000 hours of w orkforce learning w as deliv ered in 2020
including 530,000 hours of compliance training (ANZ, 2020).
In March 2020 ANZ re ceived a sharp inc rease in hardship
applications from househo lds and businesses imp acted
adversely by the p andemic. Approximately 94,000 customers
reached out f or assistance in the period 1 M arch 2020 to 31
May 2020 (ANZ, 2020). A talent identific ation and mobility
program commenced at this time to mo ve employees into the
Customer Contact Centre, Customer Service Operations and
Customer Reso lution teams supporte d b y a substantial
customised training program (ANZ, 2020).
ANZ w ants to ha ve a w orkforce that represents the
communities it serv es. The W omen in Leadership obje ctive
(33.4% in 2020 up from 32.5% in 2019) focuses on improving
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 39

[Page 64]
the b alance of w oman in Senior Ex ecutive, Ex ecutive and
Senior Manager positions – this w ork will address the gender
pay gap . The Group Ex ecutive Committe e and Key
Management P ersonnel is gender b alanced. ANZ also has
initiatives f or pe ople from under-represente d groups in the
community including indigenous Australians (ANZ, 2020).
The Spe ctrum Program has be en dev eloped to pro vide
support for autistic members of the workforce, and the Return
to Work Program for those who have had a career break (ANZ,
2020).
The Future Strategy
Challenge
This is a crucial moment in the evolution and history of ANZ,
and a big moment f or Elliot. W ill the ME Bank ac quisition
play achiev e regulatory appro val? Ho w will ANZ sustain
growth and deliv er profit gro wth in the short, me dium and
the long term? How can ANZ better manage its cost-toincome
ratio? Ho w will ANZ manage current and future strategic
risks? What major projects should have priority for ANZ in the
medium term? What ma jor projects should ha ve priority f or
ANZ? How can ANZ best be pro active about its future and
shape its industry? What should the ANZ strategy be?

40 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 65]
References
ANZ Banking Group Limite d, 2020, Annual Report ,
Melbourne, Australia.
Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2021, Australian National
Accounts: National inc ome, Expenditure and Product,
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/economy/nationalaccounts/australiannational-accounts-national-incomeexpenditure-and-product/latest-release, downloaded 12
February 2021.
Australian T reasury, 2021, Economic Response to t he
Coronavirus, https://treasury.gov.au/coronavirus/businessinvestment, downloaded 12 February 2021.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2001, Corporations A ct,
Canberra ACT.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2010, Competition a nd
Consumer Act, Canberra, ACT
Commonwealth of New Zealand, 1983, The Compa nies
Act, Wellington, New Zealand.
Commonwealth of New Zealand, 1986, Commerc e Act,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Commonwealth of New Zealand, 1986, Fair Trading Act,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Commonwealth of New Zealand, 2003, Credit Contr acts
and Consumer Finance Act, Wellington, New Zealand.
Congressional Research Servic e, 2021, Global Ec onomic
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 41

[Page 66]
Effects of CO VID-19, 10 F ebruary, https://fas.org/sgp/crs/
row/R46270.pdf, downloaded 12 February 2021.
Ellis, L. 2016. Booms, busts, c ycles and risk appetite,
Financial Ris k Da y Conferenc e, 18 M arch,
https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2016/spso-2016-03-18.html, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Eyers, J. 2021. ASIC open to bitcoin-linked ETF listing, The
Australian Financial Review, 13-14 February, p. 8.
Fullerton, T. 2021. ANZ’s mo ve on ME Bank to test rules
over big four deals, The Australian, 3 February, p. 13.
Kehoe, J. 2021. Biden’s Senate win is a climate alert f or
Morrison, The Australian Financial Review, 8 January, p. 39.
International M onetary Fund, 2021, Australia,
https://www.imf.org/en/Countries/AUS, downloaded 12
February 2021.
Moullakis, J. 2021. Big Tech boosting costs for banking, The
Australian, 3 February, p, 17.
Neiron, A. 2017. Bank levy highlights S&P/ASX 200
concentration risk, V anEck Australia Pty Ltd, 15 M ay,
https://www.vaneck.com.au/bank-levy-highlightsconcentration-risk, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Patrick, A. 2016. Where ANZ’s $88m bet on Mike Smith
went wrong: Inside story, The Australian Financial Review, 29
July, p. 1.
Pollock, D. 2019. The future of banking: Is it all bitcoin and
blockchain? F orbes, 25 July , https://www.forbes.com/sites/
darrynpollock/2019/07/25/the-future-of-banking-is-it42 | ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL

[Page 67]
allbitcoin-and-blockchain/?sh=3318a7431eb9, downloaded
12 February 2021.
Ryan, P. 2018. ‘Four pillars’ banking policy is ‘ad hoc’ and
‘redundant’, Productivity Commission w arns, ABC News, 7
February, https://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-02-07/
productivitycommission-warns-four-pillars-banking-policyadhoc/
9402742#:~:text=The%20four%20pillars%20policy%20was,m
aintain%20a%20competitiv e%20banking%20market,
downloaded 11 February 2021.
Wade, B., Topalova, Y., Boutin, N., Jhunjhunwala, P., Loh,
H., von Oertzen, T., Ukon, M. and Wise,
A., 2020. Seven trends that will reshape the airline industry,
Boston Consulting Group, 9 January, https://www.bcg.com/
en-au/publications/2020/seven-trends-reshapeairlineindustry, downloaded 4 November 2020.
Whyte, J., Shapiro, J., Thompson, S. and Moullakis, J. 2016.
Out of control: the high-octane world of dealing rooms: Fight
club – ANZ’s toxic culture, The Australian Financial Review,
15 January, p. 10.
Wright, S. 2021. Recovery ‘locked-in’, with ballooning debt,
The Age, 12 February 2021, p. 5.
Yeates, C. 2021. NAB chases y ounger clients in 86 400
buyout, The Age Business, 30 January, p. 2.
ANZ BANKING GROUP LIMITED: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS,
ORGANIC GROWTH OR COST CONTROL | 43

[Page 68]
3.
PROBLEMS FROM
LONDON HEAD OFFICE
TO OUTBACK
AUSTRALIA: RESOLVING
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE AND
ABORIGINAL
RECONCILIATION
ISSUES AT RIO TINTO
LIMITED
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
44 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 69]
works w e ha ve made all reasonab le eff orts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
There has be en much spe culation in the Australian business
press on the merits of Rio Tinto Group (Rio Tinto) being
led from head offic e in London. Rio Tinto has a dual stock
exchange liste d structure c omprising Rio Tinto Limite d on
the Australian Stock Ex change (ASX) and Rio Tinto p lc on
the London Stock Ex change that refle cts the ethos, history
and ma jor sourc es of c apital f or the business. The London
head office is a great distance from the biggest division by sales
revenue and profitability – the Pilb ara iron ore operations in
Western Australia. Head offic e loc ation and perf ormance
presents a strategic management problem.
One ongoing c oncern for some y ears at Rio Tinto Group
has been risk management after difficulties emerged in relation
to merger, ac quisition and div estment activity during the
tenure of T om Alb anese as Chief Ex ecutive Officer (CEO)
from May 2007 to January 2013 (W alters, 2013). This era at
Rio Tinto Group underperf ormed f or shareho lders with
significant imp airments on assets imp acting annual results.
Problem issues in this period include d weakness in de cisionRIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 45

[Page 70]
making at executive level, questionable Investment Committee
practices (Walsh, 2016), and shortcomings in board of director
oversight (Walters, 2013).
The Board of Directors and
Risk Management
Currently Rio Tinto c onducts risk management ac ross the
whole business portf olio with emp hasis on all organisation
layers being ab le to identify , assess and manage risk in areas
like M & A, div estment, occupational health and saf ety, and
cultural sensitivity (Rio Tinto, 2019).
Rio Tinto has be en heavily criticised in Australia in 2020
for the company’s decision to blast the 46,000-year-old Juukan
Rock Shelter heritage site to e xpand the Brockman 4 iron ore
mine, with the bo ard and e xecutive scrambling to rebuild the
relationship with the Puutu Kunti Kurrama and Pinikura
people (Hastie, 2020).
The Morrison Australian Go vernment is furious with the
Juukan Rock Shelter b last and the irrep arable damage – a
strategic error s ymptomatic of a business being run from
London for London. Board composition and oversight of the
executive influences firm perf ormance (Fitzro y, Hulbert and
O’Shannassy, 2016), and ma y be an issue here. There are six
United Kingdom b ased c ompany dire ctors, f our Australian
based directors and one each from Canada and Franc e – refer
46 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 71]
to Table 1 below for further details. Chairperson and CEO cotenure is low and a c oncern at the moment with chair Simon
Thompson appointe d to the ro le in M arch 2018 and CEO
Jean-Sebastien Jac ques appointe d in July 2016 (Rio Tinto ,
2019).

Table 1: Ri o Ti nto Boa rd Compositi on a nd Demogr aphics
(Rio Tinto, 2019)
RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 47

[Page 72]
Name Position Location Gender Age Date
Appointed
Simon
Thompson Chairperson
United
Kingdom
(UK)
Male 60 03/2018
Jean-Sebastian
Jacques CEO
London
Head
Office
Male 48 07/2016
Jakob
Stausholm
Chief
Financial
Officer
London
Head
Office
Male 51 09/2018
Megan Clark INED Australia Female 61 11/2014
David
Constable INED Canada Male 58 02/2017
Simon Henry INED UK Male 58 04/2017
Sam Laidlaw Senior
INED UK Male 64 02/2017
Michael
L’Estrange INED Australia Male 67 09/2014
Hinda Gharbi INED France Female 49 03/2020
Simon
McKeon INED Australia Male 64 01/2019
Jennifer
Nason INED Australia Female 59 03/2020
Ngaire Woods INED UK Female 57 09/2020

48 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 73]
The Business Environment
The impact of Covid-19 has been traumatic economically for
many countries ac ross the w orld (Lo we, 2020). Glob al gross
domestic product (GDP) is e xpected to f all between 6% and
7.6% in 2020 before recovering to 2.8% growth in 2021; many
in the community have lost their jobs or are on re duced work
hours and c onsequently re duced inc ome, with y ounger age
groups bearing much of the burden in Organisation f or
Economic Co-operation and Dev elopment (OECD)
developed countries (OECD, 2020).
In Australia there is a strong and gro wing a wareness of
aboriginal disadv antage, respe ct f or Aboriginal artef acts and
culture, and need for national reconciliation (Hastie, 2020).
Technology is continuing to evolve and is having a number
of impacts in iron ore and bro ader mining se ctor (Rio Tinto
Limited, 2019). All p layers in this industry are se eking to
improve the use of transport, automation and robotics.
Technology disruption is a material risk in this industry (BHP
Group Limited, 2019).
The Morrison Government has be en reluctant to embrac e
long range emissions targets and using a pric e on c arbon as
a market-based solution to emissions (Gluy as, 2020). Climate
change and a gre ener future is an inc reasing c oncern of the
international business c ommunity including the Australian
business community (Coles, 2019).
The mining industry is a c apital intensiv e business with
RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 49

[Page 74]
great riv als such as BHP Group Limite d, F ortescue M etals
Group Limited, Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd and V ale S.A.
investing signific ant financial resourc es. There are high
financial stakes in play here (Rio Tinto, 2019).
The materials sector is a strong component of the ASX with
many small and me dium size firms p lus these big riv als. The
big challenge f or an y materials se ctor pub lic c ompany is to
get ac cess to quality resourc e assets, then achiev e e conomies
of scale in operations to ensure asset efficienc y (BHP Group
Limited, 2019).
In relation to buy er po wer China is the w orld’s largest
purchaser of iron ore. There is a limited number of suppliers of
key commodities including iron ore, c opper, magnesium and
alumina. The price for iron ore has been favourable in the past
financial year (Rio Tinto, 2019).
In relation to supp lier power the ma jor iron ore p layers in
Australia set out to be c onnected to their loc al communities,
deliver strong community engagement, a desirable location for
the workforce to live, transport links and a Covid-19 free work
environment – these are strategic priorities f or sustainab le
operations (Fortescue Metals Group Limited, 2019).
Threat of substitutes for a material such as iron ore is scrap,
and aluminium is being increasingly used in mobile phones, jet
engines, motor vehicles and aircraft (Rio Tinto, 2019).
Critical success factors required for survival in the industry
include oc cupational health and saf ety, w orkforce, mining
engineering, transport te chnology, transport c apability,
50 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 75]
exploration, netw ork allianc es, distribution channels and
research and development.
Company Analysis
Rio Tinto Group has operations in 36 c ountries and
communicate their strategy as f ollows: “Our strategy is to
create superior v alue for shareholders by me eting customers’
needs, maximising c ash from our w orld class assets and
allocating capital with discipline” (Rio Tinto, 2020a).
Rio Tinto is arrange d into f our main operational
businesses: Aluminium (2019 E arnings bef ore interest, tax,
depreciation and amortisation (EBITD A) USD 2.29 billion),
Copper & Diamonds (2019 EBITD A USD 2.07 billion),
Energy & Minerals (2019 EBITD A USD 1.76 billion), Iron
Ore (2019 EBITDA 16.10 billion) plus Growth & Innovation
and Commercial (Rio Tinto , 2019; Rio Tinto , 2020b).
Funding, design and build of each operation is c arefully
managed with safety, cost control and performance to schedule
high priorities (Rio Tinto, 2019).
There are four Group strategic priorities. First the portfolio
of lo w c ost, long term assets off ering market gro wth
opportunities. Second performance with focus on operational
excellence, saf ety, v alue prioritise d o ver v olume. Third
partnership – w orking thoughtfully and responsib ly with
partners (i.e. governments, community groups, local suppliers,
RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 51

[Page 76]
industry leaders, NGOs, te chnology providers), Finally people
– access to, developing and retaining the best talent; a div erse
and inclusive workforce globally, plus growth of technical and
commercial c apability through c entres of e xcellence (Rio
Tinto, 2019).
Diversity is promote d with an inc rease w oman in senior
management roles 2% p.a. and 50% of each graduate intake is
woman; more to do (Rio Tinto, 2020c). Rio Tinto has 47,000
employees with talent dev elopment and retention a priority
(Rio Tinto, 2019).
The Commercial division of Rio Tinto Group maintains
the f ocus on the customer. Mineral and metal products are
used in a wide range of ev eryday products including motor
vehicles, c offee pods and smart p hones. Strong supp ly chain
control is maintained through construction and management
of end-to-end logistics (i. e. rail, port, ship). Rio Tinto is
mindful of the imp act of operations on the en vironment and
the significance of this f or brand management. China is a big
importer of Rio Tinto Group iron ore including its high
quality Pilbara BlendTM iron ore – better ge ographic spread
of sales would assist risk management over the medium to long
term (Rio Tinto, 2019).
Technology is a c ritical suc cess f actor f or Rio Tinto
especially as it relates to use of artificial intelligenc e,
automation and robotics. An operations c entre is loc ated in
Perth and is the base from which the AutoHaulTM operations
are manage d. STEM c apability development is important to
52 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 77]
Rio Tinto including the benefits of learning and f eedback
from data-insight. STEM is promote d in p artnership with
QUT, UW A, M cGill Univ ersity and P olytechnique of
Montreal (Rio Tinto, 2020c).
Group Revenue is up in the p ast financial year due to high
iron ore pric es; 2019 results also sho w a substantial
impairment charge of USD3.49 billion mainly relate d to
delays with the Oyu T olgoi, M ongolia proje ct and an
impairment on the Y arwun alumina refinery and W eipa
bauxite mines in Que ensland – ref er Table 2 belo w f or the
financial summary . Rio Tinto maintain strong c ash flo w
generation c apability, though dela ys on ma jor proje cts c an
create big financial swings (Rio Tinto, 2019).

Table 2: Rio T into Summary A udited Financial Data
2017 to 2019 (Rio Tinto, 2019)
RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 53

[Page 78]
(United States
Dollars (USD)
Millions)
2017 2018 2019 +/- %
Change
Sales 40,030 40,522 43,165 7%
Earnings before
interest and tax 14,474 18,200 11,767 -35%
Net interest/finance
expense (1,658) (33) (648) 1864%
Net profit before tax 12,816 18,167 11,119 -39%
Net profit after tax 8,851 13,925 6,972 -50%
Basic earnings per
share
490.4
cents
793.2
cents
491.4
cents
Total assets 90,949 87,802
Total liabilities 41,126 42,560
Net equity 49,823 45,242
Net cash generated 11,821 14,912
Debt to equity ratio 0.83 0.94

The Strategy Challenge at Rio
Tinto Limited
Average tenure on the bo ard of dire ctors is an issue here. Are
there enough w oman on the bo ard? Ho w w ould y ou assess
54 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 79]
the financial efficienc y of Rio Tinto? Calculate the interest
cover, return on assets and return on e quity ratios using the
information in T able 1, then go to the Rio Tinto Annual
Report f or 2019 and e xtract an y further financial data that
will assist y ou in c onducting further financial ratio analysis
and making re commendations for the future strategy of this
organisation. In particular comment on the dividend payment
capability of the Group p lus the a vailable time and resourc es
to deliv er the strategy y ou propose. W ill y ou re commend a
change to risk management and bo ard of dire ctor structure
arrangements? How can Rio Tinto better manage indigenous
issues in the future? Are industry conditions favourable?
Conclusion
Rio Tinto clearly ha ve c orporate go vernance and top
management team issues to address in relation to their o verall
strategic management. One schoo l of thought in the me dia
is that Rio Tinto is run from London f or London. This is a
major issue when c ore cash flow is dominate d by operations
in Australia, espe cially in a region where Aboriginal
reconciliation is a high Federal and State Government priority.

RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 55

[Page 80]
References
BHP Group Limite d, 2019. Annual Report , M elbourne,
Australia.
Coles Group Limite d, 2019 . A nnual Report . M elbourne,
Victoria.
Fitzroy, P., Hulbert, J. and O’Shannass y, T. 2016. Strategic
Management: The Cha llenge of Creati ng Value, 3rd Edition,
Routledge Publishing, London, UK.
Fortescue M etals Group Limite d, 2019. Annual Report ,
Perth, Western Australia.
Hastie, H. 2020. ‘Rio chief to sa y sorry to gorge o wners’,
The Age , 1 September 2020, http://ezproxy.its.rmit.edu.au/
login?url=https://wwwproquestcom.ezproxy.lib.rmit.edu.au/docview/
2438719888?accountid=13552, viewed 1 September 2020.
Gluyas, R. 2020. ‘Call to end 10-year war over climate’, The
Weekend Australian, June 2728, p. 22.
Lowe, P. 2020. ‘Co vid-19, the labour market and pub lic
sector balance sheets’, Address to the Anika Foundation Online,
21 July , https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2020/spgov-2020-0721.html, downloaded 28 July 2020.
Organisation f or E conomic Co-operation and
Development, 2020. Glob al e conomy f aces a tightrope w alk
to recovery, 10 June, http://www.oecd.org/newsroom/globaleconomy-faces-atightrope-walk-to-recovery.htm, viewed 4
September 2020.
56 | RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021

[Page 81]
Rio Tinto Limite d, 2019, Annual Report , M elbourne,
Australia.
Rio Tinto Limite d, 2020a. Our Strategy ,
https://www.riotinto.com/can/about/
strategy#:~:text=Our%20strategy%20is%20to%20create,%2C
%20People%2C%20Partners%20and%20Performance., viewed
12 August 2020.
Rio Tinto Limite d, 2020b . Our Business,
https://www.riotinto.com/about/business, viewed 12 August
Rio Tinto Limite d, 2020c. P eople,
https://www.riotinto.com/sustainability/people, viewed 12
August 2020
Walsh, S. 2016. ‘Ho w I did it...the CEO of Rio Tinto on
managing in a h ypercyclical industry’, Harvard Busi ness
Review, March: 33-36.
Walters, K. 2013. ‘Wh y Rio Tinto ga ve its CEO , T om
Albanese, a push’, SmartCompany,
https://www.smartcompany.com.au/people-humanresources/leadership/why-rio-tinto-gave-its-ceotom-albanesea-push/, viewed 4 September 2020.
RIO TINTO LIMITED 2021 | 57

[Page 82]
4.
COCHLEAR LIMITED
2021: MANAGING
THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC
By Justin Pierce and Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
Dig Ho witt re clines on the c ouch, ho lding his almost limp
six-year-old son in his lap . Weary from a long da y of home58 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 83]
schooling as w ell as sev eral video calls, he reaches to the side
table where a w elcoming ic e-cold Stella Artois a waits him.
“What a tough y ear!”, he whispers to himself as he f eels the
refreshing amber ale descend into his grumbling stomach. He
wonders whether the w ay he and the rest of the Cochlear
Limited (Cochlear) team has been working can go on like this:
“No, seriously, can it go on forever?”
Dig’s son stirs with a fright as the mobile p hone rings
unexpectedly. It is Rick Ho lliday-Smith, Cochlear’s chair.
Exhausted and no w off the clock, Dig muses f or a moment to
let it go to v oicemail, but thinks better of it. He edges his son
onto the couch beside him and answ ers the call with as much
positivity as he can muster...“g’day Rick, how-ya-goin’?”
Background
Cochlear is one of Australia ’s most c elebrated success stories
and a glob al inno vation-based manuf acturing firm. Its c ore
product is a series of imp lantable artificial hearing organs and
associated technology. It counts research and development (R
& D) and capital management among its impressive strengths,
boasting a strong track re cord of growing revenue, profit, and
dividends, making Cochlear a darling among the in vestment
community. The b alance she et is c onservatively geare d, and
cash flow is strong.
Cochlear began with a heart-w arming ac count. In the
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 59

[Page 84]
1960s, Prof essor Graeme Clark w as inspire d b y his deaf
father’s wish to ha ve greater c onnection to others. Research
at the time suggeste d that a deaf person c ould re ceive the
sensation of hearing through ele ctrochemical stimulation
signals but had no w ay to perc eive the sounds, p articularly
speech. This prompte d Prof essor Clark to in vent an
implantable hearing aid. In 1978, the first c ochlear imp lant
surgery was completed, and Prof essor Clark and the research
team then disc overed ho w to enc ode spe ech signals to allo w
speech perception (Cochlear Limited, 2020).
Mass manuf acturing began in 1981 with the Nucleus
Group and in 1995 Cochlear Limite d listed on the Australian
Securities Exchange (ASX). Since then, Cochlear Limited has
enjoyed its position as market leader of hearing imp lants
globally, inc reasing its reach, rev enue, and profitability
significantly. Nowadays, Cochlear c ontinues an ambitious
R&D program, in vesting 14% of its sales rev enue in the ne xt
generation of hearing imp lant so lutions (Cochlear Limite d,
2020). Eventually, it is hoped that a fully imp lantable hearing
loss solution will be available.
Cochlear depends on c ollaborative relationships with
academic-, c ommunity-, industry-, health-, and go vernment
professionals. It works with more than 100 research p artners
to c reate, prote ct, and share new intelle ctual property. This
strategy is bo lstered b y making in vestments in early-stage
biotechnologies that ma y complement Cochlear’s operations
in the future. For example, in 2019, Cochlear Limited invested
60 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 85]
in Nyxoah, a medical device company that specialises in nerve
stimulation therapy to treat sle ep apnoea (Cochlear Limite d,
2019).
The Business Environment
Late 2019 sa w a no vel coronavirus zoonotically mutate from
pangolins to humans, most likely in a w et market in Wuhan,
Huabei Pro vince, the P eople’s Repub lic of China. The
contagion in humans w as swift, leading to a w orldwide
emergency, and the identific ation of severe acute respi ratory
syndrome c oronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which c auses
coronavirus disease 2019 (CoViD-19). The W orld Health
Organization [sic.] (WHO) de clared a w orldwide p andemic
and jurisdictions around the world responded in various ways
(WHO, 2020).
In Australia, Prime Minister Sc ott M orrison rushe d to
secure the rights to loc ally manuf acture a then promising
vaccine, made b y Oxf ord Univ ersity and AstraZene ca. As
infection rates spread, Australian State go vernments
responded b y imposing austere restrictions to fre edoms,
including to movement and mandating pe ople to wear masks
where they could not otherwise remain socially distant. These
so-called ‘lockdowns’ led to widespread changes in our social
fabric with the sudden news that except for ‘essential workers,’
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 61

[Page 86]
nobody c ould go an ywhere (Saul, Sc ott, Crabb , M ajumdar,
Coghlan & Hellard, 2020).
The lockdowns led to those who were able to be productive
from home. Videoconferencing grew in popularity f or
meetings, but also classes and sta ying in touch with friends
and family. Parents juggled videoconferencing-enabled homeschooling with their w ork commitments and man y mediumto-low-income workers were stood do wn or retrenche d. The
Australian Federal government responded with two economic
stimulus p ackages, JobSeeker and JobKeeper to cushion the
impact from the w orsening e conomic situation (Knight,
2021). In more re cent times, ho wever, government approval
ratings ha ve de creased with lockdo wn f atigue and the
realisation that man y businesses that re ceived JobKe eper
payments used them to buoy profit margins.
The world economic growth forecast for 2021 is 5.5% and
in 2022 it is expected to be 4.2%, however this will vary around
the world subject to the imp act of Co vid-19 on nations and/
or regions (International M onetary Fund, 2021). The Unite d
States gro wth f orecast f or 2021 is 5.1% (Actual 2020 -3.4%)
and in 2022 it will be 2.5%. The Euro Area forecast for 2021 is
4.2% (Actual 2020 -7.2%) and in 2022 it is expected to be 3.6%.
This compares with China forecast at 2021 8.1% (Actual 2020
2.3%) and in 2022 5.6% (International Monetary Fund, 2021).
Two of the more silent imp acts of the go vernment
lockdowns has been the rise of mental health problems among
youth and the imp act of inc reases in domestic vio lence
62 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 87]
(Abbott, 2021). The limits to personal fre edoms have ignited
a lockdo wn-related f atigue that manif ests in mental health
concerns, while being c onfined to the dw elling with the same
group of pe ople c an lead to tensions. The imp act of the
government-imposed lockdo wns ha ve theref ore had tw o
dimensions: e conomic- and health-relate d. Many are no w
angry at the go vernment f or the ongoing and sometimes
worsening situation.
Elsewhere around the w orld, where lockdo wns ha ve not
been as sev ere, inf ection rates dw arf those re corded in
Australia. At the time of writing, the UK w as e xperiencing
50,000 inf ections per da y (M orton & Therrien, 2021), the
subcontinent is running dangerously short on o xygen
(Gettleman, Schmall, Ra j & Kumar, 2021) and some nations
are dealing with f atalities faster than they c an bury their dead
(Yangon, 2021). The seemingly lackadaisical approach of the
UK go vernment that has opte d to ‘liv e with the virus ’
(Solomon, 2021) further enrages the Australian populace who
feel hard done by, even if Australia is relatively well off in health
and e conomic terms in c omparison to the rest of the w orld
(Chung, 2021).
However, ev en bef ore the p andemic began, Australia ’s
economic credentials were in good shape (P andey, 2021) and
remain so. With GDP and inflation gro wing at belo w target
rates, the Reserve Bank of Australia is attempting to stimulate
business investment by leaving interest rates at an all-time lo w
of 0.1% (RBA, 2021). Despite the w orrying trend of stand
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 63

[Page 88]
downs and retrenchments, the unemp loyment rate f or June
2021 fell to 4.9%, the lowest rate since Labor was last in power
(ABC, 2021). An additional notew orthy mac roeconomic
indicator is the w age pric e inde x (WPD), which c ontinued
to rise 1.5% o ver the y ear (ABS, 2021a). Finally, despite the
economic difficulties, Australians are on average quite wealthy,
as illustrated in the following table.

Table 1: Austr alian W ealth Indi cators, Dec ember 2020
(ABS, 2021b)
Measure Estimate
Median Household Weekly Income $1,844
Mean Total Household Assets (‘000) $1,221
Mean Total Household Liabilities (‘000) $199
Mean Household Net Wealth (‘000) $1,022
Median Household Net Wealth (‘000) $632

Beyond Australian w ealth, tax rates are high c ompared to
Australia’s trading p artners. For personal tax, rates ac crue on
a sliding scale so that higher inc ome individuals pay more real
tax, up to 49% at the highest inc ome bracket. For corporate
tax, it is set at a flat rate of 30%, which c an make Australian
businesses less c ompetitive on the international stage (T ax
Foundation, 2020).
64 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 89]
Notable te chnologies that are imp acting on c ommerce
include the omnipotent Internet, buo yed b y almost all
Australians c arrying an Internet-c onnected mobile devic e in
the pocket. This, together with the rise of social me dia
platforms, allo ws firms to c onnect with c onsumers in w ays
never imagined before (Butt, 2019). These handheld devic es
have also rev olutionised c omputing app lications, rename d
‘apps’ that e xploit Internet c onnectivity and allo w links not
only betw een pe ople, but other devic es that c an include
watches, homew ares such as refrigerators and health
equipment such as pe dometers (Chantzis, Stais, Calderon,
Deirmentzoglou & Woods, 2021).
The spe ed of te chnological change has be en ac celerating
since the 1950s (Grinin, Grinin & Korotayev, 2020), and apart
from electronic devices, biotechnology product cycles are also
fast ( ibid.). Involving the w ork of man y researchers, clinic al
trials, and regulatory bodies, rapid adv ances in biote chnology
and pharmaceuticals are driving better quality of life for many
illnesses and c onditions (Bessen, n. d.). For e xample, the
Pfizer–BioNTech COMIRNA TY v accine w as the f astest
vaccine to be approved for human use in Australia, with Pfizer
entering Phase 3 clinical trials in November 2020 and the TGA
approving on 25 January 2021 (T GA, 2021). It w orks b y
encasing virus spikes from SARS-CoV -2 in nanop articles,
which are injected into the muscle, causing the body to learn to
recognise and fight the virus with corporeal antibodies (ibid.).
Biotechnology innovations have also be en used to find better
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 65

[Page 90]
ways of gro wing c rops, nourish liv estock, and prev ent pests
(Bessen, n.d.).
Isolated from its trading p artners, Australia is a large
continental nation in the south p acific. Australia has ac cess
to less than 1% of the w orld’s usab le w ater supp ly (Lehane,
2014) and has a harsh and dry c ontinent. Most of Australia is
uninhabitable so settlements tend toward the periphery, where
river s ystems and c oastal w aters pro vide ac cess to irrigation
and seaf ood. A small population, relativ e to neighbouring
countries, comprises a proud multiculturalism, multiple small
businesses, and an egalitarian culture (Kapf erer & M orris,
2003).
Australia is a c onstitutional monarch y, heade d b y HM
Queen Elizabeth II. Its governance is by a federation of states
that share and sep arate po wer betw een them as w ell as the
coalescing Federal government. The High Court adjudic ates
on c onstitutional matters and is the highest c ourt of appeal
in the country. Various regulators (e.g., ACCC, ASIC, TGA,
TEQSA) imp lement la ws p assed b y the P arliament. Noncriminal legal activity tends to pursue fre e market ideals and
protecting consumers from unfair trade practices (McCauley,
2018; Murtough, Pearson & Wreford, 1998).
The Biotechnology Industry
Competitors in the hearing industry include Sonova Holdings
66 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 91]
AG, Danish firm Demant A/S, the Australian go vernment
enterprise Hearing Australia, Danish firm W idex A/S, and
privately-owned Starkey Hearing T echnologies from the US.
Cochlear and Demant lead this v ery c ompetitive industry ,
boasting huge rev enues and R&D e xpenditures. Although
large capital expenditure is needed to establish a biotechnology
firm, start-ups are common, thanks to new models of v enture
capitalism (Booth, 2019) and c an rise quickly with p lentiful
government grants a vailable f or te chnological inno vation
(Department of Industry, Science, Energy & Resources, 2021).
The biotechnology industry (of which the hearing industry
is a p art) is run on inno vation. Product cycles are driv en by
imaginations of the human condition and large investments in
R&D (Su & Minsuk, 2015). Some proje cts will nev er yield
results and so it is important that a firm’s portfolio of research
projects ev entually hits a breakthrough so that it c an rep ay
the investment of all the other f ailed projects (Quelch, 2008).
The promise of suc cessful clinic al trials makes this industry
attractive for research investment, as well as attracting some of
the best and brightest minds in the world (Bennett, 2001).
The WHO f orecasts hearing loss to aff ect 900 million
people around the w orld b y 2050 (2019). Those that
experience hearing loss be come progressiv ely iso lated. Since
people tend to trust me dical practitioners (M organ, 2021),
hearing so lutions are e xpensive and nev er disc ounted. With
the limite d number of pro viders in the marketp lace and the
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 67

[Page 92]
specialist nature of the product, buy ers are not ab le to b arter
on price.
Suppliers of p hysical aspe cts of the product include
healthcare pro viders, c omponent manuf acturers, and
distributors. However, the industry also relies on pro viders
of intangible aspects of the product, which include scientific
and me dical e xpertise. The industry relies on netw orks of
collaborating partners, including univ ersity- and go vernment
departments. Much of the labour f orce in biotechnology and
related fields (i.e., medicine) work not for the money, but for a
calling they experienced to their line of work.
While there are no substitutes f or biote chnology o verall,
when focusing in on implantable hearing solutions, substitutes
can include automate d audiometry , and sound amp lifiers.
However, these current substitutes are technologically inferior
and do not c ounter hearing loss like the Cochlear imp lant
does. Future product c ycles ma y produc e an alternativ e,
which is another reason wh y the industry must c ommit to its
R&D agenda.
Company Overview
Cochlear Limite d is the glob al leader in hearing imp lant
solutions. As it has done sinc e it w as first listed on the ASX,
it sep arates the ro les of chair and CEO (Cochlear Limite d,
2020). This demonstrates alignment the ASX Council of
68 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 93]
Corporate Go vernance re commendation 2.5 (ASX, 2019,
p.15). Rick Ho lliday-Smith w as appointe d to the bo ard in
March 2005 and w as appointe d Chair in July 2010. Dig
Howitt w as an insider CEO and President appointment in
2018, having joined the company in 2000 (Cochlear Limite d,
2020). During the 2020 financial y ear, Cochlear Limite d
appointed tw o new dire ctors with spe cific e xperience in
medical devices and health services communications (Cochlear
Limited, 2020, p.8).
Cochlear Limite d’s operating and financial review (2020)
extols its mission, which is (p. 15):
We help people hear and be heard.
We empower peop le to c onnect with others and live a
full life.
We tr ansform t he wa y peop le u nderstand a nd treat
hearing loss.
We i nnovate a nd bri ng to ma rket a r ange of
implantable hearing solutions that deliver a lifeti me of
hearing outcomes.
While anchoring to its mission, Cochlear Limite d has three
strategic priorities that include retaining market leadership ,
growing the market f or hearing imp lants and deliv ering
consistent rev enue and profit gro wth (Cochlear Limite d,
2020, p . 21). It engages in signific ant R&D programs,
investing around 14% of rev enue. Collaborating with
Cochlear Limite d is an allianc e of netw ork p artners, which
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 69

[Page 94]
assists it to deliver 61% of its sales via implants, 29% via services
and 10% via acoustics (ibid. p. 16).
Cochlear Limited’s sales and net profit gro wth throughout
the years has been enviable. The following Figure 2 and Table
2 respectively illustrate the growth. It boasts that AUD $1,000
invested at the time of listing w ould be w orth approximately
AUD $140,000 at the end of the 2020 financial year (Cochlear
Limited, 2020, p. 17).

The 2020 financial y ear sa w Cochlear Limite d’s activities
severely imp acted b y the CoV iD-19 p andemic as imp lant
surgeries around the world were deferred. Yet, they continued
to exercise prudent financial management, keeping costs in line
with the sales in Table 2 below (Cochlear Limited, 2020).

Table 2: Coc hlear Limited Financial Summary 2017-2020
(Cochlear Limited Annual Report, 2018, 2019, 2020)
70 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 95]
2017
$Million
$Million
$Million
$Million
Sales 1239.7 1351.4 1446.1 1,352.3
Cost of sales 358.4 361.2 351.1 344.4
Selling, marketing
and general
expenses
347.2 397.0 450.9 470.0
Research and
development
expenses
167.7 167.7 184.4 185.1
Administration
expenses 85.2 97.4 94.8 93.8
EBIT 315.6 348.4 359.3 206.9
Net finance
expense/Net
interest paid
6.8 7.9 4.5 8.9
Income tax
expense 85.2 94.7 88.9 44.2
NPAT 223.6 245.8 276.7 (238.3)
Operating cash
flow 259.8 258.1 296.0 (157.8)
Free cash flow 124.2 202.7 158.2 (302.5)
Total assets 1156.9 1379.2 2,575.7
Total liabilities 546.1 653.3 1,174.2
Total non-current
liabilities 258.4 293.8 356.7
Total equity 610.8 725.9 1,401.5
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 71

[Page 96]
The net profit after tax (NP AT) loss poste d b y Cochlear
Limited is due to legal proceedings brought against them in the
US for p atent infringement (Cochlear Limite d, 2020, p . 3).
In March 2020, the US Court of Appeal a warded damages to
Alfred E Mann Foundation for Scientific Research (AMF) and
Advanced Bionics LLC (AB) of US $280 million. Cochlear
Limited de clared they w ould appeal the de cision, as it w as
awarded based on an expired patent (op cit., p. 8).
Cochlear has a focused value proposition, providing hearing
solutions to those who e xperience moderate to prof ound
hearing loss. The main product is the CochlearTM Nucleus®
implant, which pro vides patients with a v ariety of options to
improve hearing quality . This product is c omprised of tw o
components: the e xternal sound proc essor and the internal
implant. The external component is a vailable in a v ariety of
wearable options and c an be c onnected to an iPhone or
Android app (Cochlear Limited, 2020, p. 14).
Another category of product includes the ‘ac oustics’ range,
which make use of bone c onduction f or hearing so lutions.
The leading product here is the CochlearTM Baha® 5 system,
including the SoundArc and smart app. The final component
of Cochlear Limite d’s offering is called ‘services’ and includes
sound processors for replacement or in different colours.
Priority market segments for Cochlear Limited in the future
are dire ct-to-consumer marketing, hearing aid channel
programs, the adult and seniors’ market in developed markets,
72 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 97]
children in emerging markets, and China, which is se en as
a great opportunity f or future gro wth (Cochlear Limite d,
2019). Indeed, Cochlear Limite d estab lished a Chinese
manufacturing f acility in Chengdu, Sichuan Pro vince,
expected f or c ompletion to ward the end of 2020 (Cochlear
Limited, 2020, p . 7). Finally, it enjo yed p leasing news from
the US F ood & Drug Administration (FD A) that appro ved
Cochlear’s Nucleus® imp lant f or use in children from nine
months of age with bilateral, prof ound sensorineural hearing
loss (op cit., p. 6).
During financial y ear 2019, Cochlear Limite d ac quired
intangible assets associate d with the e xpanded GN Hearing
alliance, including licence fees for the existing technology and
investment in the dev elopment of further intelle ctual
property. Cochlear Limite d also mo ved to estab lish its o wn
direct distribution channels in sev eral emerging markets in
2019, which in volved ac quisition of some distributors.
Cochlear Limite d c ontinues to strengthen the allianc e with
GN Hearing during the 2020 financial y ear (Cochlear
Limited, 2019; 2020).
Cochlear has a diverse global workforce of over 4000 people
in 180 c ountries (Cochlear Limite d, 2020, p . 10). Cochlear’s
workforce ac counts f or tw o thirds of its operating e xpenses
(op cit ., p .4). They c ome from all w alks of lif e and must
demonstrate a p assion f or the industry and Cochlear’s
mission. Many of the w orkforce are scientific ally traine d,
engineers or other te chnical personnel who w ork to
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 73

[Page 98]
implement the po werful Cochlear Limite d vision.
Notwithstanding the previous financial y ear, Cochlear is a
fast-growing organisation. People management challenges for
Cochlear include attracting, retaining, and motiv ating
qualified staff who ha ve the p assion and ambition to change
lives.
Cochlear Limite d also estab lished div ersity targets f or the
Board and Senior Leadership positions, to support its
Diversity & Inc lusion Fr amework, launche d in 2018. They
take an inno vative appro ach to gender div ersity, presc ribing
targets of betw een 40-60 per c ent of either gender
(notwithstanding alternativ e gender identities). This is
supported b y the talent ac quisition appro ach as w ell as
succession and other pe ople-related po licies (Cochlear
Limited, 2020, p. 8).
Cochlear’s glob al headquarters is situate d at M acquarie
University, Sy dney, which it assume d in 2010. In 2017, it
acquired its long-term manuf acturing site at Lane Co ve, that
had be en previously lease d. During financial y ear 2017, it
invested in manuf acturing f acilities in Brisb ane, Australia
(Cochlear Limite d, 2017) and, as note d abo ve, finalise d
construction of the Chengdu, Sichuan Pro vince
manufacturing facility toward the end of 2020. The Chinese
facilities are set to significantly increase its output capacity, but
it will have to await Chinese regulatory approvals, which could
take two years to secure (Cochlear Limited, 2020, p. 7).
Cochlear Limite d inc reased c apital e xpenditure in
74 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 99]
information te chnology (IT) infrastructure and s ystems
significantly in 2018 (Cochlear Limite d, 2018). The purpose
of this in vestment w as to impro ve c onnectivity of health,
cybersecurity, and digital health c apability (Cochlear Limited,
2019). It dev eloped smart apps to c omplement its range of
products and data analytics to impro ve service quality. R&D
is significantly important to future product off erings and will
continue to be in the future.
The Future
After what c an only be desc ribed as a v ery tough y ear—and,
perhaps more urgently, a brutal da y of home-schoo ling—Dig
suffers through the o ld man’s ramblings, swigging on his be er
as he paces the lounge room. When it seems Rick finally takes
a breath, Dig sa ys, “hey, Rick, I’v e be en thinking.” He goes
on to e xplain his idea to c apitalise on the lockdo wns and the
changes it has brought to the w ay Cochlear c an seize on
current and future opportunities. Covid-19 has had an impact
on the Cochlear business and the e xecutive will ne ed to turn
this around. A commitment to R & D will remain important
going forward. The re cent patent ruling in the Unite d States
also ne eds to be challenge d in c ourt and finalization of the
settlement made – this is a signific ant financial c ost and will
require c onsidered judgement b y the bo ard. W orkforce
retention and dev elopment remains a priority loo king to the
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 75

[Page 100]
future. There is much f or Rick and Dig to c onsider – what
will be the best recommendations to improve shareholder and
stakeholder value and make a better business?

References
Abbott, A. (2021) ‘CoV iD’s M ental-Health T oll: Ho w
Scientists are T racking a Surge in Depression’, Nature, 3
February 2021, [online] https://www.nature.com/articles/
d41586-021-00175-z, accessed 14 June 2021.
Australian Bro adcasting Corporation (ABC) (2021)
‘Australia’s Unemp loyment Rate F alls Belo w 5 P er Cent f or
the First Time in 10 Y ears’, 15 July 2021, [online]
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-07-15/unemploymentrate-june2021/100295084, accessed 28 July 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2021a) ‘W age Price
Index, Australia ’, 19 M ay 2021, [online]
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/economy/price-indexesandinflation/wage-price-index-australia/latest-release,
accessed 28 July 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2021b) ‘Househo ld
Financial Resourc es’, 30 June 2021, [online]
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/economy/finance/
household-financialresources/latest-release, accessed 28 July
2021.
Australian Se curities Ex change (ASX) Corporate
Governance Council (CGC) (2019) Corporate Governa nce
Principles a nd Rec ommendations, 4th E d, F ebruary 2019,
76 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 101]
[online] https://www.asx.com.au/documents/regulation/cgcprinciples-andrecommendations-fourth-edn.pdf, accessed 29
July 2021.
Bennett, B. (2001) ‘Rises and F alls Aside, V olatility is the
Real Story’, Australian Fi nancial Revi ew, 3 October 2001,
[online] https://www.afr.com/politics/rises-and-fallsasidevolatility-is-the-real-story-20011003-j6zp3, accessed 29
July 2021.
Bessen, J. (n.d.) ‘Benefits & Risks of Biotechnology’, Future
of Life Institute , [online] https://futureoflife.org/
background/benefits-risks-biotechnology/, accessed 29 July
2021.
Booth, B. (2019) ‘The Creation of Biote ch Startups:
Evolution not Rev olution’, Forbes, 15 August 2019, [online]
https://www.forbes.com/sites/brucebooth/2019/08/15/
thecreation-of-biotech-startups-evolution-not-revolution/,
accessed 29 July 2021.
Butt, Y. (2019) ‘Intelligent Interf aces’ Deloitte Tech Trends
2019: Beyond t he Digita l Fronti er, [online]
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/uk/
Documents/technology/deloitt e-uk-techtrends-2019-chapter5-intelligent-interfaces.pdfCochlear
Limited (2021) Cochlear Li mited, [w ebsite]
https://www.cochlear.com/au/en/home, accessed 28 July
2021.
Chantzis, F., Stais, I., Calderon, P . Deirmentzoglou, E. &
Woods, B. (2021) Practical IoT Hacking: The Definitive Guide
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 77

[Page 102]
to Attac king t he Internet of Thi ngs, No Starch Press, San
Francisco, CA, USA.
Chung, F. (2021) ‘World Reacts to “Ridiculous” Australian
Lockdowns’, news.com.au, 30 June 2021, [online]
https://www.news.com.au/world/coronavirus/australia/
world-reactsto-ridiculous-australian-lockdowns/news-story/
f11cc35bc70727df8f808054fe824a16, accessed 29 July 2021.
Cochlear Limite d (2020) Annual Report , [online]
https://www.cochlear.com/
5a41c9a8-7972-4999-aca7-45822fab0867/
2020%2BAnnual%2BReport.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&amp;C
ONVERT_TO=u
rl&amp;CACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-5a41c9a8-79724999-aca7-45822fab0867nl4wM4J, accessed 29 2021.
Cochlear Limite d (2019) Annual Report , [online]
https://www.cochlear.com/
c782c6e8cd66-402e-87b8-936db9f1fea8/
2019AnnualReport.pdf?MOD=AJPERES&amp;CONVER
T_TO=url&amp;C ACHEID=ROOTWORKSPACEc782c6e8-cd66-402e-87b8-936db9f1fea8-mOnUHj-, accessed
28 July 2021.
Cochlear Limite d (2018) Annual Report , [online]
https://www.cochlear.com/43d56bccd510-4a20-ab70-6208fa5af77e/
en_annualreport2018_cochlear2018annualreport_5.69mb.p
df?MOD=AJPERES&amp;CONVERT_TO=url&amp;CA
CHEID=ROOTWORKSPACE-43d56bcc78 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 103]
d5104a20-ab70-6208fa5af77e-mkRS5RK, accessed 29 July
2021.
Cochlear Limite d (2017) Annual Report , [online]
https://mss-p-007delivery.stylelabs.cloud/api/public/
content/80ec436c5ca343be9e168ff902f2e739?v=2 c524267,
accessed 29 July 2021.
Department of Industry , Scienc e, Energy and Resourc es
(2021) ‘Business.go v.au: Biome dical T ranslation Fund ’,
[online] https://www.business.gov.au/grants-andprograms/
biomedical-translation-fund, accessed 29 July 2021.
Gettleman, J., Schmall, E., Ra j, S. & Kumar, H. (2021)
‘The Night the Oxygen Ran Out’, The New York Times, June
28 2021, [online] https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/28/
world/asia/india-coronavirus-oxygen.html, accessed 29 July
2021.
Grinin, L., Grinin, A. & Korota yev, A. (2020) ‘ A
Quantitative Analysis of W orldwide Long-term T echnology
Growth: From 40,000 BCE to the E arly 22nd Century’,
Technological Forecasti ng & Socia l Cha nge, 155(1), [online]
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.119955, accessed 29
July 2021.
International M onetary Fund, 2020, World Ec onomic
Outlook Update , June 2020, https://www.imf.org/en/
Publications/WEO/Issues/2020/06/24/
WEOUpdateJune2020
#:~:text=Global%20growth%20is%20projected%20at,Econo
mic%20Outlook%20(WEO)
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 79

[Page 104]
%20forecast.&text=In%202021%20global%20growth%20is,1
9%20projections%20of%2 0January%202020, downloaded 1
December 2020.
Kapfere, B. & M orris, B. (2003) ‘The Australian Society
of the State: Egalitarian Ide ologies and New Dire ctions in
Exclusionary Practice’, Social Analysis, 47(3), pp.80-107.
Knight, E. (2021) “Where’s So lly? Lew’s gone quiet on
Myer, but he’s not gone a way”, The Sydney Morning Herald,
4 M arch 2021, [online] https://www.smh.com.au/business/
companies/where-s-solly-lew-s-gone-quiet-onmyer-but-he-snot-gone-away-20210304-p577ui.html
Lehane, S. (2014) ‘ Australia’s Water Security Part 1: Water
Resources’, Future Di rections Internati onal, [report] 16
September 2014, [online]
https://www.futuredirections.org.au/publication/australia-swater-security-part-1water-resources/, accessed 29 July 2021.
McCauly, D. (2018) ‘Emp loyers Say Unions are Irrelev ant
After Latest M embership Decline’, Sydney Morning Herald,
29 No vember 2018 [online] https://www.smh.com.au/
politics/federal/employers-say-unions-are-irrelevantafterlatest-membership-decline-20181129-p50j5h.html,
accessed 27 July 2021.
Morgan, R. (2021) ‘Image of Prof essions Surv ey 2021’,
[report] 27 April 2021 [online] http://www.roymorgan.com/
findings/8691-image-ofprofessions-2021-april-2021202104260655, accessed 29 July
2021.
80 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 105]
Morton, B. & Therrien, A. (2021) ‘Co vid [sic.]: UK Daily
Cases Pass 50,000 f or First Time sinc e January’, BBC News ,
16 July 2021, [online] https://www.bbc.com/news/
uk-57867990, accessed 29 July 2021.
Murtough, G., P earson, K. & W reford, P . (1998) ‘T rade
Liberalisation and E arnings Distribution in Australia ’,
Productivity Commission: Industry Commission Staff Research
Paper, F ebruary 1998 [online] https://www.pc.gov.au/
research/supporting/trade-liberalisation/tradelib.pdf,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Pandey, S. (2021) ‘ Australian E conomy Storms Ahead as
COVID [sic.] Re covery turns “V shaped”’, Reuters, 3 M arch
2021, [online] https://www.reuters.com/article/usaustraliaeconomy-gdp-idUSKCN2AV02X, accessed 29 July 2021.
Quelch, J. (2008) ‘Ho w to Create a Blockbuster’, Harvard
Business Revi ew, 1 September 2008, [b log] https://hbr.org/
2008/09/how-to-create-a-blockbuster, accessed 29 July 2021.
Reserve Bank of Australia (2021) Reserve Bank of Australia,
[website] https://www.rba.gov.au/, accessed 28 July 2021.
Saul, A., Sc ott, N. Crabb , B.S., M ajumdar, S.S., Coghlan,
B & Hellard, M.E. (2020) ‘Imp act of V ictoria’s Stage 3
Lockdown on CoViD-19 Case Numbers’, Medical Journal of
Australia, 213(11), pp.494-6.
Solomon, T . (2021) ‘Corona virus: the UK Appro ach
Explained’, The Conversati on, 17 M arch 2021, [online]
https://theconversation.com/coronavirus-the-uk-approachexplained133672, accessed 29 July 2021.
COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC | 81

[Page 106]
Su, Y .L. & Minsuk, S. (2015) ‘Product and Proc ess
Innovation in the Development Cycle of Biopharmaceuticals’,
Journal of Pharmaceutical Innovation, 10(1), pp.156-65.
Tax Foundation (2020) ‘Corporate T ax Rates Around the
World’, [report] 9 De cember 2020, [online]
https://taxfoundation.org/publications/corporate-tax-ratesaround-theworld/, accessed 14 June 2021.
Therapeutic Goods Administration (T GA) (2021) ‘ARTG
ID 346290’, [online] https://search.tga.gov.au/s/
search.html?collection=tgaartg&profile=record&meta_i=346
290, accessed 29 July 2021.
World Health Organization [sic.] (WHO) (2019) ‘Deafness
and Hearing Loss ’, https://www.who.int/news-room/factsheets/detail/deafness-and-hearing-loss, accessed 6 November
2019.
World Health Organization (WHO) (2020) Novel
Coronavirus (2019-nCoV): Situati on Report 22, 11 F ebruary
2020 [online] https://www.who.int/docs/defaultsource/
coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200211-sitrep-22-ncov.pdf,
accessed 16 February 2020.
Yangon, AFP (2021) ‘“Dead Body Carrier”: Co vid [sic.]
Surge Overwhelms Myanmar Burial Volunteers’, France24, 19
July 2021, [online] https://www.france24.com/en/livenews/
20210719-dead-body-carrier-covid-surge-overwhelmsmyanmar-burialvolunteers, accessed 29 July 2021.
82 | COCHLEAR LIMITED 2021 – MANAGING THROUGH THE
PANDEMIC

[Page 107]
5.
MYER HOLDINGS
LIMITED 2021
By Justin Pierce and Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Background
This story is stranger than fiction. A comedy or a delight f or
the trage dian, this story bends in tortuous p aths and
culminates in an horrific end. Globally, the 1990s sa w
department stores in troub le and man y retail dep artment
stores went their own way, rather than listen to reason (ANU,
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 83

[Page 108]
n.d.). Brian Quinn estab lished the so-c alled Co les M yer
Limited “Battlestar Galactica”, in Tooronga, Victoria and used
company financial resourc es to fund his o wn property
development (Salmons, 1995). Later gao led and disgrac ed,
Quinn’s legacy might ha ve been a clue to highlight the leaky
bucket and arrest the companies decline. Later Myer Holdings
Limited (Myer) executives tried in vain to move the focus into
lower markets, whereas upmarket stores mo ved into M yer’s
traditional market. This was a recipe for financial performance
disaster for Myer!
It is 6:00 AM in mid-July 2021 and the distant horizon rises
with daylight hues and a flurry of frantic activity desc ends on
Tullamarine Airport. Steam billows from a long black against
Acting Myer chairperson JoAnne Stephenson relatively cooler
breath as she enjo ys a morning c offee. Pensive, she stares
absently through the Q ANTAS lounge glass at engine ers
refuelling aircraft and a languid ground crew loading suitcases.
Like a ballet rehearsal she’d seen hundreds of times bef ore, its
details evanesce into the liquid arabesque of a bustling airport;
after all, there is much else weighing on her mind.
Previous chairperson Garry Hounsell had be en c opping
criticism from astute M yer shareho lder and Chairman of
Premier Investments Limited (Premier) Solomon Lew both in
the press (e.g., Loussikian & Powell, 2019) as well as privately.
Lew, a seasone d retail e xecutive, f ormer Reserv e Bank of
Australia bo ard member and f ormer Co les M yer Limite d
chairman, is less-than-ashamed of his frustrations with M yer’s
84 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 109]
performance. Lew now often tells Step henson how to do her
job and, as unhelpful as it has be come in the current climate,
Lew’s interruptions are wearing thin. Stephenson has a tough
job telling a positive story of Myer’s turnaround and often can
see Lew making regular comment in The Australian Financial
Review (AFR), drawing attention to weak Myer performance.
A further concern is that Myer has now experienced two strikes
against its remuneration report (Khadem, 2018) and a third
spill in future would be a dire outcome for the board!
The Nascent Myer Holdings
Limited
Australians kno w M yer f or its retail presenc e, its long and
proud history as well as its special place in the community. In
the 1800s, Russian immigrant Sidney Myer (National Portrait
Gallery, 2018) joine d his brother, Elc on in Australia to open
a dep artment store in regional V ictoria. Success ensue d and
they e xpanded to be come one of the largest store netw orks
in Australia. To begin with, a se cond store w as opene d in
Bendigo, V ictoria, f ollowed b y the ic onic Bourke Stre et
Emporium in the Melbourne central business district.
Elcon served in the Great W ar, while Sidney c ontinued to
build the empire. Victorious, Elcon returned to be come the
Merchandise Ma nager in 1919, often taking sourcing trips
overseas for products to sell in the stores. The Myer family was
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 85

[Page 110]
strong and so the brothers’ values were to provide for their staff
like a f amily would. For example, they pro vided nursing and
medical care as well as premises staff c ould rest at if they w ere
travelling. These ‘benefits ’ w ere met with an ardent lo yalty
among staff and customers. Myer w as destine d f or suc cess
and in 1925 it liste d on the then M elbourne Stock Ex change
(National Museum Australia, n. d.). But all w as not so w ell
externally.
Australian unemp loyment in the 1920s te etered betw een
six and elev en per c ent (Forster, 1985) as go vernment-funded
post-war infrastructure proje cts were c ancelled. In Americ a,
mass migration from the regions sa w pe ople searching f or
prosperity in metropo litan areas and in vestment there began
to grow. Meanwhile, the Australian Pound was pegged against
the Pound Stirling, and both British and Australian e xports
were very expensive. In September 1929, the New York Stock
Exchange c rashed, heralding the official start of the Great
Depression (Gruen & Clark, 2009). While the rest of the
world fell into stagnation, the Myer brothers doubled down.
Myer c ontinued its gro wth ac quiring other dep artment
stores. The strategy w as to ac quire minority stakes in target
firms bef ore gradually absorbing them into M yer stores.
Meanwhile, M yer’s organic gro wth e xploded through
developing its own properties and it became one of Australia’s
major real estate forces. Myer was not finished and in 1968, it
acquired Lindsay’s Stores, rebranding (with permission from
its Americ an namesake) to Target Austr alia, which w ould
86 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 111]
become another of Australia ’s much-lo ved disc ount
department stores (Target Australia, 2020).
Around this time materialism w as gro wing, as television
ushered in a new era of c onsumer advertising. Consumption
increased and, bubb ling a way in the b ackground, the US
Advanced Resea rch Projects Agency was w orking on a
communications network. By the early 1970s, the ARP ANet
had covered the US and by 1973 it was connected to Norway.
Over time, more and more devic es w ere c onnected and b y
1993, commercial access to what is now known as the Internet
was gaining popularity (Science Museum of the UK, 2018).
From Little Things Big Things
Grow
Myer’s ac quisitions c ontinued, with liquor business
Crittendens, f ast f ood outlet Re d Rooster and dep artment
stores Grace Brothers being adde d to the portf olio. In 1985
Myer merge d with GJ Co les, f orming Co les M yer Limite d,
cementing their place as Australia’s largest retailer. Coles Myer
enjoyed strong financial perf ormance o ver the ne xt tw enty
years. Then the unthinkab le happene d when M yer’s
performance within the Co les M yer portf olio began to
deteriorate. By 2006, Myer was sold to private equity for AUD
$1.4 billion.
The early 2000s w as a time f or business to learn from
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 87

[Page 112]
expensive misadv entures with te chnology. The first of these
was the millennial bug, f ollowed b y the so-c alled dot c om
bubble. In the Australian landscape, the reaction was to reduce
technological expenditure, which damaged competitiveness on
an international f ooting. Meanwhile, giants w ere sprouting,
with Google, Amazon, eBa y and other big c orporate
expanding their interests.
New Beginnings
Under new o wnership, huge changes w ere af oot at M yer.
Bernie Broo kes w as appointe d CEO , Jennif er Ha wkins
became the ‘f ace’ of M yer and it cleare d old merchandise. It
established its o wn Myer One loyalty program and in vested
AUD $99 million in stock c ontrol and c onsumer insights.
These had an immediate impact, almost doubling the previous
year’s EBIT to AUD $123 million. Despite the shot in the
arm, all was still not well.
In April 2007, sev eral key e xecutives resigne d, and sev eral
high-profile brands def ected to M yer’s main riv al, Da vid
Jones. By June, the Bourke Street store freehold was sold with
Myer taking a 60-y ear leaseho ld. This signalle d the start of
Myer’s real estate liquidation to help fre e capital to f acilitate
its turnaround. Myer announced in 2009 that it w ould again
list on the ASX and did so with an issue pric e of AUD $4.10.
By August of 2011, the share price had almost halved to AUD
88 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 113]
$2.09. At the time of writing, Myer shares teetered around 33
cents.
The Bloody Battle Lines
Retailers distribute products and pro vide an in-store
experience. In physical stores, customers have multiple sensory
experiences. Lighting might be harsh or w arm, sounds c ould
be of bus y, efficient operational staff or soft, relaxing sounds,
and the sc ent c ould be a signature perfume to remind
customers of the brand. Retailers also bring a c ollection of
products together that the customer w ould otherwise have to
source themselves.
Retailers have a high cost of exit, as their liquid assets are in
the form of in ventory. Inventory must be c onverted to c ash
to allo w the business to run and is wh y retailers e xhibit the
sharpest contrast between current- and quick ratios. Retailers
also ne ed to in vest in distribution netw orks, branding and
promotions. Competition is made fierc e mainly be cause
retailers ha ve traine d their customers to buy only when
products are on sale. It results in c ompetitors bringing
forward promotions in a bid to ‘b ank’ the sale. Retailers have
recently disc overed their online store as the highest grossing
(Udland, 2015).
Suppliers are generally loc ated in clusters in emerging
economies. Low differentiation between factories leads many
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 89

[Page 114]
to se ek endorsement from big name retailers (e.g., Gap) to
demonstrate their quality c redentials when bidding f or more
business. As the emerging e conomies gro w, supp ly c osts
increase, leading to c ontracts being a warded to ev en less
developed e conomies, and much activity no w oc curs in
Bangladesh, Pakistan and in South America (Obe, 2019).
Transparency indic es e xpose w orking standards in
developing countries and retailers are held to account for their
ethical sou rcing. These ethics are W estern ideals impose d on
Eastern locales, where child labour, bribery and graft are often
part of the prevailing culture. Suppliers thus have little power
since their operations are tie d so tightly to f oreign dire ct
investment. It is said that factories resort to unethical practices
to stay in business (Kim, Colicchia & Menachof, 2016).
Another type of supp lier are property trusts. Shopping
malls are generally built for two or three ‘destination’ retailers.
Destination retailers enjo y a much cheaper rent than smaller
clientele that are charge d a higher rate per square metre. The
Australian property market is one of the strongest in the world
and landlords can demand high returns (Koehn, 2018).
Buyers have choice in the industry and v ery low switching
costs. Customers often pric e-match with their handheld
device, demonstrating their price sensitivity, applying pressure
on margins. Buyers also ha ve the option of buying from
international retailers that tend to challenge servic e lev els
(Nalca, Ra y & Bo yaci, 2020). Buyers are w ell informed and
educated. Research pre cedes purchases and buy ers are
90 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 115]
protected in Australia by regulators at national and state level.
Still, buy ers are c ontinually lure d b ack into stores f or the
newness factor and, especially where fashion is concerned.
Smaller entrants appear fre quently, but larger f ootprint
brands seldom enter the industry unless with large c apital
behind them. Recently Kaufland de cided not to enter the
Australian groc ery industry (Schlesinger & E vans, 2020).
Distribution and rental c osts are significantly more e xpensive
in Australia and its c onservativism se es c onsumers spending
more frugally . The c ontinual threat of inf ormed and
increasingly mobile c onsumers has c reated c onditions f or a
race to the bottom. Brand recognition is difficult to establish,
requiring in vestment spread o ver multip le channels. Several
brands attempt to estab lish themselv es, lea ving c onsumers
distracted (Da vis, Rosner, D’ Angelo, M acLellan & Milliken,
2019).
As a distribution channel, f ew substitutes e xist f or retail.
Online retailing is not a substitute f or traditional retail sinc e
many industry incumbents have already adopted it. However,
as an e xperience, there are man y substitutes. Consumers can
enjoy me eting p laces, social netw orks, e ducation or satisfy
their curiosity through tra velling or Netflix. Like retail, other
experiences c an be multi-sensory and alternativ es c an be in
restaurants, personal care, entertainment and even social.
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 91

[Page 116]
The Australian Context
At last, there is c ertainty on the UK’s e xit from the European
Union with Prime Minister Boris Jo hnson overseeing its final
negotiations. Meanwhile, in the throes of President T rump’s
deglobalisation agenda, the US ele cted Joe Biden, who has
signalled military withdra wal from Afghanistan. While the
US economic conditions remain strong, its social f abric must
heal and rebuild relationships with key p artners. Elsewhere,
unresolved trade tensions simmer, trading b locs re configure,
and the W orld Bank dispute reso lution proc ess is under
revision.
In Australia the left–right dichotomy is not as pronounced,
but the po litical b attleground is nonetheless f ought on a
balance between worker rights and commercial innovation. In
late 2019, a new coronavirus emerged from Wuhan, the capital
of Chinese pro vince, Huabei. Believed to ha ve crossed from
pangolins to humans in a w et market, the originally name d
nCov-2019 virus is no w kno wn as sudden acute respi ratory
syndrome c oronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) (WHO , 2021) and
causes c oronavirus disease (CoV iD-19). The outbreak of
SARS-CoV2 c aused the W orld Health Organization [sic.]
(WHO) to declare a global pandemic and governments around
the world have reacted to public health advice by limiting the
movement of citizens.
Historically lo w interest rates of 0.1% (RBA, 2021)
demonstrates c oncern the Reserv e Bank bo ard has f or lo w
92 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 117]
inflation. Conditions ha ve lure d in vestors into the e quity
markets (Letts, 2019) and the Australian Se curities Exchange
(ASX) breache d 7500 points in June 2021 (M arketIndex,
2021), its best lev el ev er. Capital flo wing into the e quity
markets is good f or business and the unemp loyment rate
remains steady, ho vering at 5% (ABS, 2021). Yet, an already
heated housing market ro ars on, driving househo ld debt even
higher (Karp, 2021). The mining and construction industries
that driv e Australia ’s e conomic prosperity result in GDP of
USD $55,000 per capita.
Australia’s e conomy relies on mining, c onstruction,
tourism, e ducation, and retail (Austrade, 2021). The
corporate tax rate is 30%, while around the w orld the rate
is being re duced to attract c orporate in vestment (T ax
Foundation, 2020). Personal tax rates v ary with the lev el of
income and are among the highest in the w orld. This helps to
fund government projects, but also limits disposab le income
among taxpayers, who concentrate their efforts on rising living
expenses, rent and e ducation. While limiting citizen
movement, the Australian go vernment responde d with
stimulus payments (e.g., JobKeeper) to ensure social c ohesion
and ab ate an e conomic do wnturn, and this stimulus has
helped retail (Knight, 2021).
Housing c ontinues to dominate househo ld e xpenditure
(AIHW, 2020). Australians opt to p ay do wn mortgages or
spend their disposab le inc ome on e xperiences rather than
material goods (ibid.). Wealth is concentrated among the Baby
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 93

[Page 118]
Boomers and Generation X. Disposable inc ome is
concentrated among those who ha ve so f ar not v entured into
home o wnership. Marriage and birth rates oc cur later and
later, in step with e conomic conditions. Car o wnership is in
decline as more and more pe ople flock to the cities to liv e
(Trounson, 2017).
In Australia there are 117,000 homeless persons
(Homelessness in Australia, n. d.), ranking Australia 17th in
the world. Homelessness coincides with disadvantage, familial
breakdown, vio lence, and mental health epidemio logy.
Mental health and prev entable disease have replaced infection
as the most c ommon illnesses and y et Australians are living
and w orking longer. Where onc e 18 marke d the start of
adulthood, full maturity is now considered age 27 or 28 (Beck,
2016), which is often when y ounger Australians lea ve their
parent’s home.
In response to the CoV iD-19 pandemic, Australian States
and T erritories introduc ed stage d lockdo wns and hotel
quarantine while a v accine c ould be dev eloped (Saul, Sc ott,
Crabb, M ajumdar, Coghlan & Hellard, 2020). Restrictions
were strictest in V ictoria where it endure d through 112 da ys
lockdown in 2020. Mental health concerns rose sharply where
children were home-schooled, and people telecommuted from
home. Singles be came more iso lated and man y dev eloped
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) from forced restrictions
(Abbott, 2021). Victorian Premier Dan Andrews fronte d a
94 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 119]
morning news c onference f or o ver 100 straight da ys to
communicate the public health response (Ilanbey, 2020).
Computing po wer has spurre d te chnologists and
businesspeople to embrac e c ommercial Internet and
technological prev alence is ubiquitous (Armental, 2020).
Computing power that in the 1970s w ould consume the size
of the average car is in the 2020s c arried around in the hand.
Interfaces ha ve ev olved and where onc e c omplex keybo ard
commands were required, a computer is commanded with the
swipe of one’s fingers and their voice (Butt, 2019).
Business intelligence is the name giv en to finding v alue in
vast amounts of data c aptured by the modern enterprise. It
is buo yed b y adv ances in machine learning and artificial
intelligence that can anticipate patterns for business managers
(Pratt & Fruhlinger, 2019). Digital assistants help with day-today tasks like shopping lists, appointments, and entertainment
(Waters, 2016). Geographic information systems (GIS) enable
businesses to pinpoint delivery locations and match customers
with spe cific offerings (Ho wari & Ghref at, 2021). They are
often linke d to customer relationships management (CRM)
systems, product lif ecycle management (PLM) and other
enterprise systems in a c oordinated effort to inc rease business
throughput, improving efficiency and allo wing businesses to
do more with less (M øller, Kræmmergaard & Rikhardsson,
2006).
Australia’s land mass is almost 8 million square kilometres.
Much of it is uninhabitable with little rainfall and inhabitation
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 95

[Page 120]
tends to ward the outer regions. Drought f orces w ater
conservation eff orts and the eff ects of oc ean currents—the
Indian Oc ean dipo le and the ElNiño Southern
Oscillation—result in periods of c yclonic activity in the
tropics and c old conditions in the south. Particularly in the
south-east, Australia is often aff ected b y Antarctic wind,
spurred b y the Ro aring 40s that c ombine to c reate the socalled ‘wind chill factor’ and can make Australian winters f eel
particularly cold (DAWE, 2019).
Imported goods must be land-shippe d after they are seafared and Australia’s land mass results in very high distribution
costs (D’Arcy, Norman & Shan, 2012). In response, some
businesses ship to multip le ports to achiev e e conomies of
scope. Issues in the en vironmental se ctor include logging of
natural rainforests, irrigation of the Murray and Darling rivers,
soil salinity, nuclear waste and, growing concern about climate
change: Australia is often highlighted as the highest emitter of
carbon dioxide per capita in the world (Cousins, 2005).
Australia is a constitutional monarchy, headed by Elizabeth
II, Que en of Australia whose c eremonial ro le and e xecutive
powers are imp lemented by her representativ e His Ex cellency
General the Honourab le Da vid Hurley . Australia is a
federation of states, meaning that po wer is distributed among
the states and territories as well as the federal government. The
High Court arbitrates on c onstitutional matters, eff ectively
reducing the regent’s ro le to a purely c eremonial one
(Parliament of Australia, n. d.). Since the 1970s, Australia has
96 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 121]
seen an inc rease in the liberalisation of its markets, resulting
in fre er c apital flo w inside and outside its borders, greater
prosperity and lo wer unemp loyment. Although markets
should run their o wn c ourse, the go vernment realises their
imperfections, having set up several bodies to help regulate the
freer economy (Murtough, Pearson & Wreford, 1998).
Some of these include the Australian Competition &
Consumer Commission (ACCC), the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission (ASIC), the Australian F oreign
Investment Review (AFIR) bo ard, the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority (APR A), to which Australian
businesses are generally ac countable. The agenda f or
regulatory bodies is to inc rease transparency, competition and
innovation within Australian businesses and make Australia a
safe and attractiv e p lace for foreign dire ct investment. Legal
activity appears to c entre on c onduct of businesspe ople and
on protecting working conditions, where the Australian union
movement attempts to cling onto relev ance (M cCauley,
2018). Legal sanctions on c ompany dire ctors c ontinues to
mount in a trend that c an be se en to mimic the litigant
appetite of the US. The trend is marke d b y searching f or a
root cause and then holding that cause to account, whatever or
whomsoever it may be.
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 97

[Page 122]
Myer’s Performance
Myer operates 60 dep artment stores ac ross Australia as w ell
as one of Australia ’s largest online retail sites, m yer.com.au,
aiming to be Australia’s f avourite depa rtment store (Myer,
2020). Myer off ers w omenswear, mensw ear, childrensw ear,
beauty, homew ares, ele ctrical goods, to ys, and general
merchandise. Although M yer p lanned to add 90 brands in
the lead up to 2020, the CoV iD-19 pandemic thwarted those
efforts and it w as ne cessary to f ocus on c onsolidating the
online store (ibid.).
Myer refreshed its board in 2018 with new talent including
Lyndsey Cattermo le AM, an IT entrepreneur and Jac ques
Naylor, a seasone d retailer (M yer, 2019). The bo ard as it
stands is c apitalising on the e xtensive set of retail, brande d
fashion, and marketing skills it amasse d in late 2018,
cementing with the appointment of new CEO, John King.
Before the CoV iD-19 pandemic, Myer was already on the
ropes, ne eding to reset operations, rein venting its business
model in the w ake of te chnological change and demanding
customers. Since Myer was refloated, there have been multiple
staff dep artures and new appointments to ke ep traditional
retailing aliv e. During FY19 M yer allo wed smaller
merchandise businesses to sign-up to use M yer’s distribution
channels. Myer thus hope d to c apitalise on its te chnological
investment and to c reate an additional rev enue stream. In
FY20, another project known as Factory to Customer saw Myer
98 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 123]
offer drop-shipping and signe d up Australia P ost third-party
logistics (3PL) to deliver on its promise.
Financial performance for the group for FY20 (Myer, 2020)
were as follows:

Table 1: Statement of Financial Performance
($m)
($m)
($m)
Total Sales 2,519.4 2,991.8 3,100.6
Concessions 445.2 612.2 654.0
Operating Gross Profit 958.2 1,162.4 1,184.4
% 38.03% 38.85% 38.2%
Cost of Doing Business (1,104.2) (1,002.4) (1,035.0)
% 43.83% 33.50% 33.38%
EBITDA 83.9 160.1 149.4
% 3.33% 5.35% 4.82%
Depreciation /
Amortisation (226.8) (101.6) (94.0)
EBIT (142.9) 58.5 55.4
Finance Costs (98.2) (11.5) (9.0)
Net Profit Before Tax (241.1) 47.0 46.4
Tax 68.7 (13.8) (13.9)
NPAT (13.4) 33.2 33.5
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 99

[Page 124]
The Myer balance sheet highlights are as follows:

Table 2: Statement of Financial Position
2020 ($m) 2019 ($m) 2018 ($m)
Inventory 256.0 346.9 366.8
Creditors (354.2) (372.7) (381.2)
Other Assets 1,606.7 41.1 35.1
Other Liabilities (1857.2) (225.8) (238.7)
Property 22.2 22.7 23.2
Fixed Assets 324.8 360.8 400.9
Intangibles 319.6 467.6 485.2
Total Funds Employed 166.2 640.7 691.4
Debt (78.6) (86.1) (149.2)
Cash 86.5 47.4 41.8
Equity 174.1 602.1 584.0

Table 1 sho ws M yer total sales has deteriorate d o ver the
three-year period with a dip in EBIT in 2020 (M yer, 2020).
This c ontrasts with riv al Premier which has deliv ered 10
consecutive y ears of earnings and dividend gro wth. Premier
performance sho ws that retail c an be profitab le if e xecuted
well – Solomon Lew continues to demonstrate high level retail
100 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 125]
expertise to in vestors while M yer struggles (Gre enblat, 2021;
Knight, 2021).
In FY19, M yer bo asted five million members of its M yer
One loyalty program (2019), that helps it to track and identify
spending patterns. After withdrawing from the Co les Group
Fly Bu ys program, M yer One w as important f or M yer as it
provided a means of locking lo yal customers into the
department store b y generating individual promotions to
customers. Myer still uses traditional media, such as television
and newspaper to keep brand awareness. Myer associates itself
with the f ashion elite and thus uses f ashion ic ons as brand
spokespeople, currently Elyse Kno wles Kris Smith, Rachael
Finch and Sarsha Chisho lm. It c ontinues to sponsor the
Birdcage at the M elbourne Cup c arnival, ensuring the
invitation list includes Australian and international a-list
guests to improve the exclusive view of the brand.
The jingle “M yer is m y store” has be en in use f or fifteen
years, c ommunicating that shopping in M yer stores is
personalised where customers will get the v ery best servic e.
In addition to p hysical stores, M yer was slow to mo ve on the
online channel, and w as forced to p lay catchup while sev eral
aggregator sites estab lished a f oothold. Myer no w bo asts
pleasing search engine optimisation (SEO) sc ores where it
lands among the top results in many searches.
Myer emp loys a range of prof essionals from sourcing
specialists, through branding and human resourc es to finance
and, finally, frontline workers. The pandemic saw Myer close
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 101

[Page 126]
all its 60 physical stores and stand down all its customer-facing
staff (Myer, 2020). Myer ne eds to f ocus on customers first
with impeccable presentation and efficiency. Thus, when not
stood do wn, frontline staff c arry a c apability of product
knowledge as well as exceptional service, complex promotional
knowledge, and personific ation of the M yer brand. Since
service lev els ma y v ary from outlet to outlet, there are
standards that Myer must uphold, and it audits these standards
with the use of ‘m ystery shoppers ’ who report on servic e
levels. Training and dev elopment is an important
consideration and M yer c ontinues to in vest in product
training as well as security and operational training for its staff.
The early days demonstrated a family orientation where the
Myer family provided lodgings as well as medical benefits to its
staff. These benefits commanded a fierce sense of lo yalty that
has waned in recent times as Myer scaled back on the benefits,
in response to toughening financial c onditions and standing
down staff (M yer, 2020). In the support offic e, c apability is
held in identifying desire d brands, negotiating deals with
designers, and managing the business. This includes risk
management, logistics and supp ly chain, quality c ontrol, and
governance.
Operationally, Myer has set about e xiting many of its nonprofitable brands, including App le, which typic ally has a 3%
margin f or retailers. It has made impro vements to its retail
management s ystem b y introducing new te chnology c alled
Myer Produ ct En richment Porta l, that aims to simp lify the
102 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 127]
process of registering a product through to ha ving it available
for sale. It has also in vested in te chnology with its trial of
radiofrequency identification (RFID) tags that will allow Myer
to more closely track its in ventory and allo w more ac curate
stocktake activities and monitor stock shrinkage in real time.
A sourcing offic e is held in Hong Kong where international
brand negotiations are often held and where quality assurance
observations take p lace (M yer, 2020). Beyond this,
distribution and in ventory c ontrol are ma jor operational
capabilities that Myer possesses. Linked to this are the security
of its staff and merchandise, investment in technology and risk
management
The Final Word
Flight QF472 is c alled f or bo arding and M yer Acting
Chairperson JoAnne Step henson f eels a sharp tw ang of
nervousness descend. Her ankles ache as she stumb les into an
awkward stride, heavy brief case on rollers trailing. She smiles
sadly at the stew ard who gre ets her and settles into Business
Class, watching the boarding throng race before her, blissfully
unaware of the turmoil that a waits her arriv al in Sy dney. It’s
going to be a long day and Solly Lew will be watching!
The M yer bo ard and e xecutive c onfront sev eral strategy
challenges:
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 103

[Page 128]
• CEO and board of director performance, with the risk
of a spill of the board at the next Annual General
Meeting
• Weak sales and profit performance relative to key rival
Premier
• Unhappy shareholders
• A mixed portfolio of profitable and unprofitable brands
that needs to be managed
• Number of physical stores to hold
• Adjustment of the business model to the CoViD-19
pandemic
• Leveraging the value of the Myer One program
What strategy mo ves should Step henson and the e xecutive
group led by King at Myer make to improve performance and
appease shareholders?
References
Abbott, A. (2021) ‘CoV iD’s M ental-Health T oll: Ho w
Scientists are T racking a Surge in Depression’, Nature, 3
February 2021, [online] https://www.nature.com/articles/
d41586-021-00175-z, accessed 14 June 2021.
Anon (19 F ebruary 1938) Mr. Elc on Myer [sic.], Advocate
(Obituaries) p.2.
Armental, M. (2020) ‘PC Demand During Pandemic Fuels
104 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 129]
Strongest U.S. [sic.] Market Growth in a Decade’, Wall Street
Journal, 12 October 2020 [online] https://www.wsj.com/
articles/pc-demand-during-pandemic-drives-strongest-usmarket-growth-in-a-decade-11602537956, accessed 14 June
2021.
Austrade (2021) ‘Why Australia: Benchmark Report 2021’
[online] https://www.austrade.gov.au/benchmark-report/
resilient-economy, accessed 14 June 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) (2021)
‘Unemployment Rate Falls to 5.5% in April ’, [Media Release]
20 May 2021 [online] https://www.abs.gov.au/media-centre/
mediareleases/unemployment-rate-falls-55-april, accessed 14
June 2021.
Australian Institute of Health & W elfare (AIHW) (2020)
‘Housing Aff ordability’, [report] 7 August 2020 [online]
https://www.aihw.gov.au/reports/australias-welfare/
housingaffordability, accessed 14 June 2021.
Australian National University (ANU) (n.d.) ‘Department
Stores: High Stre et Dreams ’, [online]
https://archives.anu.edu.au/exhibitions/high-street-dreams/
departmentstores, accessed 14 June 2021.
Beck, J. (2016) ‘When Are Y ou Really an Adult?’, The
Atlantic, 5 January 2016 [online]
https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2016/01/whenare-you-really-anadult/422487/, accessed 14 June 2021.
Butt, Y. (2019) ‘Intelligent Interf aces’ Deloitte Tech Trends
2019: Beyond t he Digita l Fronti er, [online]
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 105

[Page 130]
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/uk/
Documents/technology/deloitt e-uk-techtrends-2019-chapter5-intelligent-interfaces.pdf, accessed 14
June 2021.
Cousins, S. (2005) ‘Contemporary Australia:
Environmental Issues ’, ABC, [online]
https://www.abc.net.au/ra/australia/pdf/environmental.pdf,
accessed 14 June 2021.
D’Arcy, P ., Norman, D . & Shan, S. (2012) ‘Costs and
Margins in the Retail Supp ly Chain’, Reserve Ba nk of
Australia Bu lletin, [online] https://www.rba.gov.au/
publications/bulletin/2012/jun/2.html, accessed 14 June
2021.
Davis, H., Rosner, T .M., D’ Angelo, M. C. et al.
Psychological Research (2019) https://doi.org/10.1007/
s00426-019-01153-x.
Department of Agriculture, W ater and the En vironment
(DAWE) (2019) ‘W ind Chill ’, [online]
https://www.antarctica.gov.au/about-antarctica/weatherand-climate/weather/windchill/, last update d 6 June 2019,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Forster, C. (1985) ‘Unemployment and Minimum Wages in
Australia, 1900-1930’, The Journal of Economic History, 45(2),
pp. 383-388.
Greenblat, E. (2022) ‘Premier set to doub le profits as sales
shine’, The Weekend Australian, 12-13 June, p. 25.
Gruen, D . & Clark, C. (2009) ‘What Ha ve We Learne d?
106 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 131]
The Great Depression in Australia from the P erspective of
Today’, Department of T reasury [online]
https://treasury.gov.au/sites/default/files/2019-03/
03_Colin_Clark_speech.pdf, accessed 15 February 2020.
Homelessness in Australia (n. d.)
https://www.homelessnessaustralia.org.au/fact-sheets,
accessed 15 February 2020.
Howari, F.M. & Ghref at, H. (2021) ‘Ge ographic
Information Systems ’, chapter 4 in Pollution Assessment for
Sustainable Pr actices i n A pplied Sci ences a nd Engi neering,
Mohamed, A-M.O., Paleologos, E.K. & Ho wari, F.M. (e ds.),
Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford, UK.
Ilanbey, S. (2020) ‘One Hundre d Da ys of Dan’s Pressers:
What Did Victorians Really Learn?’, The Age, 9 October 2020
[online] https://www.theage.com.au/politics/victoria/
onehundred-days-of-dan-how-the-victorian-premier-talkedover-heads-of-the-journalists20201009-p563m4.html,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Karp, P . (2021) ‘RBA Reluctant to Raise Interest Rates
to E ase So aring House Pric es Be cause it Could Cost Jobs ’,
The Gua rdian, 6 M ay 2021 [online]
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/may/06/
rba-reluctant-to-raiseinterest-rates-to-ease-soaring-houseprices-because-it-could-cost-jobs, accessed 14 June 2021.
Khadem, N. (2018) ‘M yer suffers second strike on p ay, but
avoids board spill, despite Lew’s “vindictiv e campaign”’, ABC
News, 30 No vember 2018 [online] https://www.abc.net.au/
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 107

[Page 132]
news/2018-11-30/myer-suffers-second-strike-on-paypostvindictive-campaign/10572076, accessed 15 F ebruary
2020.
Kim, S., Co licchia, C. & M enachof, D . (2016) ‘E thical
Sourcing: An Analysis of the Literature and Imp lications for
Future Research’, Journal of Busi ness Et hics, 152(5),
pp.1033-52.
Koehn, E. (2018) ‘“Nobody c an do it”: Small retailers sa y
they c an’t make high Sy dney rents w ork, as landlords sho w
no merc y’, Smart Compa ny, 12 F ebruary 2018 [online]
https://www.smartcompany.com.au/industries/retail/
nobody-can-do-it-retailersreport-high-sydney-rents-are-notbudging-despite-countless-empty-shopfronts/, accessed 15
February 2020.
Knight, E. (2021) “Where’s So lly? Lew’s gone quiet on
Myer, but he’s not gone a way”, The Sydney Morning Herald,
4 M arch 2021, [online] https://www.smh.com.au/business/
companies/where-s-solly-lew-s-gone-quiet-onmyer-but-he-snot-gone-away-20210304-p577ui.html
Letts, S. (2019) ‘Bank Deposits are Being Erode d b y
Inflation as Banks Continue to Slash Rates ’, ABC News , 17
October 2019, [online] https://www.abc.net.au/news/
2019-1017/bank-deposits-eroded-by-inflation-as-bankscontinue-slash-rates/11607348, accessed 14 June 2021.
Loussikian, K. & P owell, D . (2019) ‘So lomon Lew takes
aim at M yer over pay, board posts’, Sydney Morning Herald,
October 28 2019 [online] https://www.smh.com.au/
108 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 133]
business/companies/solomon-lew-takes-aim-at-myer-overpayboard-posts-20191028-p5350t.html, accessed 15 F ebruary
2020.
MarketIndex (2021) ‘ All Ordinaries Chart’ [online]
https://www.marketindex.com.au/allordinaries, last update d
11 June 2021, accessed 14 June 2021.
McCauly, D. (2018) ‘Emp loyers Say Unions are Irrelev ant
After Latest M embership Decline’, Sydney Morning Herald,
29 No vember 2018 [online] https://www.smh.com.au/
politics/federal/employers-say-unions-are-irrelevantafterlatest-membership-decline-20181129-p50j5h.html,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Møller, C., Kræmmergaard, P . & Rikhardsson, P . (2006)
‘The Emergenc e of Enterprise Systems M anagement: A
Challenge to the IS Curriculum’, International Jou rnal of
Information a nd Oper ations Ma nagement Edu cation, 1(4),
http://dx.doi.org/10.1504/IJIOME.2006.010497.
Murtough, G., P earson, K. & W reford, P . (1998) ‘T rade
Liberalisation and E arnings Distribution in Australia ’,
Productivity Commission: Industry Commission Staff Research
Paper, F ebruary 1998 [online] https://www.pc.gov.au/
research/supporting/trade-liberalisation/tradelib.pdf,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Myer Ho ldings Limite d (2019) Annual Report , [online]
http://investor.myer.com.au/
FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/dGngnzELxUikQxL5gb
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 109

[Page 134]
1cgA/file/Myer_Annual_Report_2019.pdf, accessed 15
February 2020.
Myer Ho ldings Limite d (2020) Annual Report , [online]
https://investor.myer.com.au/
FormBuilder/_Resource/_module/dGngnzELxUikQxL5g
b1cgA/file/Myer_Annual_Report_2020.pdf, accessed 10
June 2021.
Nalca A., Ray S., Boyaci T. (2020) Price-Matching Strategy:
Implications of Consumer Beha vior and Channel Structure.
In: Ray S., Yin S. (eds) Channel Strategies and Marketing Mix
in a Conne cted W orld. Springer Series in Supp ly Chain
Management, vol 9. Springer, Cham.
National Museum Australia (n. d.) First Stoc k Exc hange
[online] https://www.nma.gov.au/defining-moments/
resources/first-stock-exchange, accessed 15 February 2020.
National P ortrait Gallery (2018) Sidney Myer [online]
https://www.portrait.gov.au/people/sidney-myer-1878,
accessed 15 February 2020.
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) (2021) ‘Cash Rate
Target’, [online] https://www.rba.gov.au/statistics/cash-rate/,
last updated 2 June 2021, accessed 14 June 2021.
Obe, M. (2019) ‘P akistan garment makers chase riv als in
India and Bangladesh’, Nikkei Asian Review 25 August 2019
[online] https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Businesstrends/
Pakistan-garment-makers-chase-rivals-in-India-andBangladesh, accessed 15 February 2020.
Parliament of Australia (n.d.) ‘Infosheet 20: The Australian
110 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 135]
System of Go vernment’, [online] https://www.aph.gov.au/
About_Parliament/House_of_Representatives/Powers_pract
ice_and_procedure/00_-_Infosheets/
Infosheet_20_-_The_Australian_system_of_government,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Pratt, M. & Fruhlinger, J. (2019) ‘What is Business
Intelligence? Transforming Data into Business Insights ’, CIO
Australia, 16 October 2019 [online] https://www.cio.com/
article/2439504/business-intelligence-definitionandsolutions.html, accessed 14 June 2021.
Salmons, R. (1995) ‘Co les M yer Boss Claims He’s the
Victim in Fraud Charges ’, Australian Fi nancial Revi ew, 30
March 1995 [online] https://www.afr.com/politics/colesmyerboss-claims-hes-the-victim-in-fraudcharges-19950330-k6c16, accessed 14 June 2021.
Saul, A., Sc ott, N. Crabb , B.S., M ajumdar, S.S., Coghlan,
B & Hellard, M.E. (2020) ‘Imp act of V ictoria’s Stage 3
Lockdown on CoViD-19 Case Numbers’, Medical Journal of
Australia, 213(11), pp.494-6.
Schlesinger, L. & E vans, S. (2020) ‘Kaufland e xit lea ves
$600m property portf olio in limbo’, Australian Fi nancial
Review, 23 January 2020 [online] https://www.afr.com/
property/commercial/kaufland-exit-leaves-600mpropertyportfolio-in-limbo-20200123-p53tzj, accessed 15
February.
Science Museum of the UK (2018) ‘From ARP ANet to
the Internet’, [online] https://www.sciencemuseum.org.uk/
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 111

[Page 136]
objects-and-stories/arpanet-internet, last updated 2 November
2018, accessed 15 February 2020.
Target Australia Pty Ltd (2020) ‘Our History’ [online]
https://www.target.com.au/company/about-us/our-history,
accessed 15 February 2020.
Tax Foundation (2020) ‘Corporate T ax Rates Around the
World’, [report] 9 De cember 2020, [online]
https://taxfoundation.org/publications/corporate-tax-ratesaround-theworld/, accessed 14 June 2021.
Trounson, A. (2017) ‘ Australia’s Generational W ealth
Divide is Biting’, [report] 14 De cember 2017 [online]
https://fbe.unimelb.edu.au/newsroom/
search?rootnode=2594402&queries_search_q
uery_posted=&queries_search_query_posted=&queries_key
words_query=Australia% 27s+generational, accessed 14 June
2021.
Udland, M. (2015) ‘Here’s a Simp le Explanation for Why
the Retail Business is just Brutal ’, Business Insi der Australia
[online] https://www.businessinsider.com.au/why-retail-isahard-business-2015-11?r=US&IR=T, last update d 13
November 2015, accessed 15 February 2020.
Waters, R. (2016) ‘Siri, Alexa, Cortana and the Unstoppable
Rise of the Digital Assistant’, Australian Financial Review, 25
September 2016 [online] https://www.afr.com/technology/
siri-alexa-cortana-and-the-unstoppable-rise-of-thedigitalassistant-20160925-grnxvj, accessed 14 June 2021.
World Health Organization [sic.] (WHO) (2021) ‘Naming
112 | MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19

[Page 137]
the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) [sic.] and the Virus that
Causes It’, [online] https://www.who.int/emergencies/
diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/technicalguidance/namingthe-coronavirus-disease-(covid-2019)-and-the-virus-thatcauses-it, accessed 13 June 2021.
MYER HOLDINGS LIMITED 2021 - COPING WITH COVID-19 | 113

[Page 138]
6.
SYDNEY AIRPORT
HOLDINGS – BACK TO
BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND
By Justin Pierce and Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works w e ha ve made all reasonab le eff orts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
It is 10:00 AM when Geoff Culbert, Sydney Airport Holdings
CEO and Trevor Gerber, Chairman grab a c offee and wander
114 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 139]
down the empty terminal. The Red Rooster outlet, shuttered
closed and silent, provides the two leaders with a much-needed
source of c onversations. “Poor pe ople, their liv elihoods!”,
quips Culbert. Gerber, who imme diately remembers that
Culbert’s own daughter, Penny, worked at Red Rooster, only
manages a non-verbal “mmm!” Culbert thinks he misse d the
mark, but Gerber’s heart is already breaking.
“What are we going to do, Trev?”, Culbert begs of Gerber.
“Geoff, settle down. We already got the money from the bond
raising and w e ha ve a huge amount of goodwill in the
community with our rental relief. Penny will be back working
there soon enough.” Gerber does his best to reassure Culbert.
Culbert wastes no time: “It’s not about me, it’s the lockdowns,
the mental health c oncerns, and no w the go vernment is
making us do additional security measures—the team is almost
ready to c rack under the pressure. I’m not sure ho w much
longer we can do it.”
The global pandemic and the lockdowns that accompanied
it ha ve wracke d profit margins and ruine d liv elihoods the
world over, and Sydney Airport is no e xception. Culbert and
Gerber worked exceptionally hard to protect the balance sheet
and, importantly , the c ash position. The share market
responded f avourably, with Sy dney Airport Ho ldings
(ASX:SYD) share price up 30 per cent year-to-date.
Gerber loo ks b ack at Culbert with an earnest e xpression:
“Geoff, don’t y ou see, you already have done it and y ou did
a sterling job . It’s no w about ho w w e get the business, the
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 115

[Page 140]
community, and the tra velling public back. You have quite a
few challenges to c onquer before that c an happen. Have you
thought about how you’re going to pull that one off?”
External Environment
The re cent tw enty-year anniv ersary of the T win T owers
disaster coincided with the US and its allies ’ withdrawal from
Afghanistan (Gerson, 2021). Although the T aliban has
quickly sw ooped b ack in to assume po wer and f orm
government in Afghanistan, President Biden, and Prime
Ministers Johnson and Morrison have hailed the US’s so-called
‘longest war’ a success (Scarr, 2021). This, while abjured in the
media (Grattan, 2021), c ontinues while high-profile Victoria
Cross recipient Ben Roberts-Smith, V C, MG c ontinues to
pursue defamation damages against a c ollection of Australian
media outlets and journalists (M cKinnell, 2021). That
aviation c atastrophe and the protracte d w ar it c atalysed
continue to have far reaching consequences!
The tragic ev ents on 11 September 2001 in New Y ork,
ushered in a new da wn of aviation security policy throughout
the w orld ( cf. US Go vernment Pub lishing Office, 2011). In
its wake, policy emphasised the role of airport ground staff in
screening passengers (Sydney Airport, 2020) and justifie d the
Australian Federal Police continuing to have a strong presence
at all ma jor airports (AFP , n.d.). Beyond Australia, se curity
116 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 141]
requirements at ports around the w orld ha ve tightene d
(Koenig, 2021) while, at the same time, pe ople who w ork at
them continue to demand better conditions (Marin-Guzman,
2021).
The Australian trip le-level s ystem of go vernment and its
operation c ould be (and often is) desc ribed as c onservative;
Australians ref er themselv es c olloquially as the ‘nann y state’
(Cater, 2021). Australia’s States’ and Territories’ responses to
the w orldwide c oronavirus p andemic has be en a protracte d
series of lockdowns and restrictions to movement (Saul, Scott,
Crabb, Majumdar, Coghlan & Hellard, 2020). Other worldly
jurisdictions responde d with less austerity but also ac cepted
much higher mortality rates (M ao, 2021). The nanny state
also loomed as the New South Wales Independent Commission
Against Corru ption (ICAC) stretche d its talons and claime d
the resignation of then Premier Gladys Berejiklian (Knaus,
2021).
Midst the lockdo wns, which numbere d 264 da ys in
Victoria, workers were stood do wn, and domestic c ash flows
slowed. Small business o wners struggle d, and man y w ere
forced into administration. The Federal, State and T erritory
governments responde d with e conomic stimulus p ackages,
known as JobSeeker and JobKeeper (Knight, 2021). These were
scaled back as vaccination targets were reached (Hitch, 2021).
Despite the ostensib le e conomic imp act c aused b y the
governments’ response to the c oronavirus pandemic—fuelled
by the me dia c ycle that emp hasised the largest c ontraction
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 117

[Page 142]
since the 1930s (RBA, 2021a)—e conomic indic ators f or
Australians remain among the strongest in the world.
The following table illustrates this clearly.

Table 1: Austr alian W ealth Indi cators, Dec ember 2020
(ABS, 2021a)
Measure Estimate (AUD)
Median Household Weekly Income $1,844
Mean Total Household Assets (‘000) $1,221
Mean Total Household Liabilities (‘000) $199
Mean Household Net Wealth (‘000) $1,022
Median Household Net Wealth (‘000) $632

Further e conomic indic ators sho w a strong position f or
Australia. The Reserv e Bank of Australia (RBA) is
maintaining the official cash rate at 0.1%, with inflation at 3.8%
for the June 2021 quarter (RBA, 2021b). Additionally, wage
rates grew 1.7% and households were saving at a rate of 9.7% of
their incomes (RBA, 2021b). Indeed, when c ompared to the
same quarter before the arriv al of the c oronavirus pandemic,
Australian economic indicators have been very, very strong.
The f ollowing tab le illustrates the national e conomic
indicators.

118 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 143]
Table 2: Austr alian Economic Indicators, June 2019 v. Ju ne
2021 (RBA, 2021a)
June 2019 June 2021
Cash Rate 1.25% 0.1%
GDP Growth 1.6% 9.6%
Inflation 1.6% 3.8%
Unemployment Rate 5.2% 4.9%
Employment Growth 2.2% 6.4%
Wage Growth 2.3% 1.7%
Average Weekly Earnings $1,257 $1,306
Household Saving Ratio 3.7% 9.7%
AUD : USD $0.69 $0.76
Population 25.4 million 25.7 million
Average Dwelling Price $649,000 $836,000
Household Income : Debt 187% 184%

Australians are kno wn to ha ve an egalitarian culture
(Kapferer & M orris, 2003) and although officially an
individualist nation with lo w po wer distanc e ( cf. Hofste de,
2001), they are also kno wn to stick together through a c risis
(Brent, 2020). The impose d lockdo wns f orced Australian
families to juggle between schooling, working, and leisure time
all spent at home. Mandatory masks while outside, and a new
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 119

[Page 144]
term ‘social distancing’ grew into the le xicon as Australians
became more f amiliar with their Premiers, who presente d at
daily press c onferences (Da vis, 2021). In the same v ein as
celebrating its worst military defeat every year on ANZAC day,
the Australian sense of humour grew to mocking its c ollective
lockdown ‘lot.’ Memes of V ictorian Premier Dan Andrews
(and others) circulate d through social me dia (Cartwright,
2021) and children’s entertainer, Jimm y Re es, grew a large
following as he reliev ed tension with his ‘M eanwhile in
Australia’ series of video posts.
Still, the lengthy period of lockdo wns eventually took their
toll as the incidenc es of mental health and domestic vio lence
grew (Abbott, 2021). Government television adv ertising
featured CoV iD-19 positiv e pe ople gasping f or breath, or
otherwise gra vely ill (M ogul, 2021) while the supp ly of
vaccinations lagge d the rest of the dev eloped w orld.
Lockdown f atigue emerge d with a gro wing anti-v accine
sentiment, leading to vio lent demonstrations in M elbourne
and Sydney (Jose & Duran, 2021). The media and Australian
Council of Trade Unions (ACTU) falsely reported infiltration
by right-wing e xtremist groups (Thomas, 2021), a clear
deception engendere d to distanc e them from the anarchistic
protestors.
Purchases mo ved online in dro ves and the deliv ery
infrastructure strained under the demand. People were using
online shopping in p lace of other types of entertainment
(Rajan, 2020). In non-p andemic times, Australians are
120 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 145]
sociable, hospitable, and lo ve to tra vel. Now, on the cusp of
ending lockdo wns, pe ople ha ve what e conomists are c alling
‘pent-up’ demand. As domestic and international borders
begin to open, f ostered by vaccine ‘passports,’ reunions with
families and friends will surely reach f ever pitch (Quiggin,
2021).
Advancements in automation are dep loyed f or proc essing
physical items, whereas ‘softer’ te chnology is use d to proc ess
data, information, and media (Collier & Evans, 2021). Indeed,
throughout the lockdo wns, Australians use d their Netflix
subscriptions to maximum utility (M organ, 2020). In the
physical sense, touch- and swipe interf aces are the new norm
and users appear to ha ve embrac ed f acial biometrics f or
authentication (Roussi, 2020). Facial re cognition has be en
embedded in p assports and surv eillance (Hunt, 2017) and
sophisticated dete ction te chnology is use d to sc reen luggage,
baggage, imported goods and p assengers (Smiths, 2019). The
major booking system used in aviation, Sabre, allows tracking
of flights via mobile telep hones and has allo wed perip heral
businesses such as v ehicle hire to bundle products f or the
travelling public. Radio frequency identification (RFID) tags
are also a maturing te chnology use d in supp ly chain
management (SCM) and theref ore are present in ports
(Deloitte The Netherlands, 2020).
Australia is a large island nation in the south-p acific, 7.692
million km2 (GA, 2021). Although it is a c ontinental island,
it accounts for less than 5% of the worlds land area (GA, 2021)
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 121

[Page 146]
and less than 1% of the w orld’s drinkab le w ater supp ly
(Lehane, 2014). Because of the deserts, Australians tend to
live around the c oastal areas where multiculturalism and
cosmopolitanism characterises metropo lises (Bongiorno ,
2015) and this makes Australia an attractiv e option f or
international migration (Australian P arliament, 2021).
Around its perimeter, Australia bo asts 182 shipping ports
(Ports Australia, 2021) and there are 31 international airports
of which seven are designated as ‘major’ (DITRDC, 2021).
The Australian Go vernment Department of Home Affairs
regulates airport se curity through the Aviation T ransport
Security Act (Cth, 2004) and the Aviation Transport Security
Regulations (2005). These instruments apply to both air cargo
and a viation transport and pro vides f or spe cific ob ligations
on airport operations. Among them are the ob ligations to
demarcate specific security zones , to appropriately label them
and to screen passengers prior to embarkment. In line with the
lockdowns, criminal activity re duced significantly in the June
2021 quarter (ABS, 2021b). Unlawful entry with intent and
motor vehicle theft de creased to their lo west levels in tw entyfive years, whereas crimes associated with family and domestic
violence-related sexual assault grew 13% on 2019 figures (ABS,
2021b.). Non-criminal legal activity in Australia f ocuses on
ensuring market transp arency (M cCauley, 2018; Murtough,
Pearson & Wreford, 1998).
122 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 147]
Industry Environment
Airports act as entry and e xit points f or goods and pe ople
into and out of a c ountry or other jurisdiction (e.g., States).
Naturally p art of national infrastructure (and typic ally
considered ‘critical infrastructure’), it is essential that airports
are in strategic ally chosen loc ations. The loc ale will imp act
on the lev el of c ompetition and the internal riv alry force for
airports (The W orld Bank, 2007). For e xample, London
Heathrow Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, and
Dubai International Airport are considered major global hubs
for a viation. The demand f or airport servic es is influenc ed
by the amount of goods entering and e xiting the c ountry.
Further issues that imp act on c ompetitive rivalry include the
services and capacity of nearby airports and whether they c an
absorb o verflow in the ev ent of demand e xceeding c apacity;
national comparative advantages also p lay a ro le (The W orld
Bank, 2027).
Airports are subje ct to go vernment regulation. Like an y
piece of infrastructure, airports re quire government planning
and sign-off, taking y ears—sometimes de cades—in the
planning (Infrastructure V ictoria, 2019). For e xample, the
new airport p lanned f or W estern Sy dney has be en in the
planning sinc e October 2015 (DITRDC, 2020).
Infrastructure such as airports are enormous undertakings,
costing several billions to dev elop. Still, governments such as
Australia’s are ke en to start infrastructure proje cts f or the
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 123

[Page 148]
employment opportunities they create (ALGA, 2021) and the
tendency for governments to bo lster the Australian e conomy
by post-W ar e conomic stimulants such as infrastructure
building (Daley , 2019). Once a new airport is estab lished,
there are few switching costs for customers (The World Bank,
2007).
While mobility has obvious substitutes in rail, road, and sea,
the objective for travel should be e xamined when c onsidering
substitutes f or airports. The re cent glob al p andemic has
proved that individuals flocke d to vide oconferencing,
telephone, and other f orms of ele ctronic c ommunication,
while they were forced to stay at home (M organ, 2020). As a
result, air travel declined rapidly during the lockdown (Sydney
Airport Holdings, 2020). However, for goods transport, there
appears to be f ew alternatives beyond rail, ro ad and sea. One
alternative, thanks to the slo wing gro wth of glob alisation, is
for nations to produc e more goods domestic ally. This would
reduce the need for access to airports but w ould be inefficient
uses of national resourc es (cf. c omparative advantage). Nonphysical goods of c ourse c an b ypass importation through
electronic means: Basslink is an e xample of import and export
of data and electricity that bypasses ports.
Airports act as c ritical infrastructure lic ense terminal
operators to run the operations (e.g., P ort Authority NSW ,
2018). They, in turn, ha ve customers that include arriving
aircraft, each of which make significant investment in facilities
(The World Bank, 2007). Disembarking passengers enter the
124 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 149]
airport and go on their w ay. Cargo are unloaded and onward
to freight f orwarding companies (AusTrade, 2021) and both
are subject to customs clearanc e and immigration clearanc e.
Customs and immigration officials c an legally slo w the flo w
of passengers and goods if they suspe ct contraband or other
illegal movement into or out of the airport. Airport operators
(e.g., Qantas) could theoretically amass enough market po wer
to eff ectively c ontrol the flo w of goods and p assengers,
especially if they have a presence at multiple ports.
Airports also have a strong union presence, which can affect
the flo w of goods and p assengers. The T ransport W orkers
Union (T WU) ha ve made signific ant demands of terminal
operators in the re cent past (Rourke, 2011) and strike when
their demands are not met. Airports also f ace the threat of
operator allianc es, which w ould materialise f or c ollective
bargaining (Rourke, 2011). Terminal operators will ne ed an
ability to absorb do wntime (The W orld Bank, 2007) and to
increase capacity for higher demand times, such as the ho liday
season. This seasonality make ports susceptible to variation in
demand.
Internal Environment
Celebrating its centenary in 2019, “Sydney Airport,” which is
operated by Sydney Ai rport Ho ldings, is c onsidered national
critical infrastructure (DHA, 2021). Boasting a purpose ‘[t]o
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 125

[Page 150]
make Sy dney proud ev ery da y’ (Sy dney Airport Ho ldings,
2020, p . 12), the business raises rev enue from a viation
operators and non-aeronautic al activities, such as retail,
property and c ar rental, c arparking and ground transport
(Sydney Airport Ho ldings, 2020). Through this, it must
maintain its 8.9 km of runways, its 74 terminals, 30,046 square
metres of retail, 17,237 c ar p arks and its other interests
(IbisWorld, 2021). Guiding the attainment of its mission is a
set of values (Sydney Airport Holdings, 2020, pp. 12-13):
• always do the right thing – integrity and honesty are at
the heart of everything we say and do;
• have each other’s [sic.] back – working at SYD is a team
effort. We care. We keep each other safe and well;
• do what you say – we challenge respectfully then
collaborate to get to ‘yes.’ We commit and deliver; and,
• think like our customers – we walk in their shoes and
always strive to improve.
Among its main e xpenses are employees, maintaining services
and utilities (e.g., c arparks and run ways), maintaining its
portfolio of property , and se curity servic es mandate d b y the
government (Sydney Airport Ho ldings, 2020, pp . 18-19). In
this manner, it c an be thought of as a f acility with operations
focused on generating revenue and maintenance.
The 2020 financial y ear with the Co vid-19 pandemic w as
not kind to Sy dney Airport Ho ldings, ra vaging its rev enues
126 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 151]
and de cimating its profits. Passenger v olumes in the M arch
quarter were 18 per cent down and 93.4 per cent down for the
remainder of the y ear (Sydney Airport Holdings, 2020, p. 2).
In turn, revenue declined by 51 per cent to AUD $804 million
and EBITDA down 62 per cent to AUD $628 million; its after
tax loss for the 2020 financial y ear amounted to AUD $107.5
million.
In the w ake of the p andemic-engendered lockdo wns,
Sydney Airport sought to prote ct its pe ople and its business.
In a rare disp lay, it guaranteed jobs for six months from April
through to September 2020 (Sy dney Airport Holdings, 2020,
p. 18). In c ommitting to these imperativ es, Sy dney Airport
remained ‘ Australia’s Gatew ay’, handling “the bulk of
Australia’s air freight” (Sy dney Airport Ho ldings, 2020, p . 2)
and half of Australia ’s repatriation efforts to date. Although
there were significant declines in passenger movement, freight
movement increased 124 per c ent (Sydney Airport Ho ldings,
2020, p. 7).
Managing the financial imp act of the p andemic, Sy dney
Airport raised AUD $850 million in debt and AUD $2 billion
in e quity (Sy dney Airport Ho ldings, 2020, p . 2) and
responded with re ductions to operating c osts. These
initiatives c ombined to allo w f or a f avourable liquidity
position. The board also took the difficult decision not to pay
a dividend, further strengthening the c ash position (Sy dney
Airport Holdings, 2020, p. 3) and enabling it to maintain a 1.8
cash flow cover ratio.
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 127

[Page 152]
It is not surprising that w orkplace safety incidents re duced
by 43 per c ent. Given that man y Sy dney Airport personnel
were re quired to w ork from home, the saf ety program
extended to home offic es. The business ro lled out saf ety
initiatives, including w alking programs and others relating to
mental health (Sydney Airport Holdings, 2020, p. 3). Beyond
the f ocus on saf ety, Sy dney Airport also achiev ed a 50:50
representation of males and f emales on its leadership team
(Sydney Airport Ho ldings, 2020, p . 3) and w ere able to close
its gender pay gap to 0.2 per cent. However, more than 10,000
jobs were lost from the airport pre cinct, which are hope d to
return as Sydney Airport and its communities recover from the
pandemic, rebuild and return.
The following table illustrates the Sydney Airport Holdings
financials.

Table 3: Se lected Sydney Ai rport Ho ldings Fi nancials
(Intelligent Investor, 2021)
128 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 153]
AUD $ 2020 2019 2018
Revenue (million) 799.3 1,632.4 1,577.6
Operating Margin (%) 75.5 70.4 81
Net Profit After Tax (million) -145.6 403.9 372.5
Return on Capital (%) 2 8 7
Return on Equity (%) -9.2 0 463.9
Market Cap (million) 17,299 19,559 15,178
Cash (million) 1,075.6 625.1 476.3
Current Assets (million) 1,598.9 840.2 1,111.8
Total Assets (million) 12,853 12,632 13,054
Short-term Debt (million) 848.2 760 0
Long-term Debt (million) 8,353 9,427 10,152
Total Liabilities (million) 11,815 13,386 12,982

Sydney Airports losses w ere to be e xpected, but it
nonetheless exercised strong corporate citizenry activities such
as relieving retail rents and guarante eing emp loyee jobs.
‘Sharing the pain’ (Sydney Airport Holdings, 2020, pp. 26-7)
is a se ction in the annual report that details ho w Sy dney
Airport sought to b alance the imp act of the e conomic
downturn with its c ommunity p artners. A rare disp lay of
corporate citizenship (Morgan, 2020), the move demonstrated
the long-term orientation adopted by the board.
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 129

[Page 154]
Conclusion
Culbert has no w settle d but he f eels a p ang of shame sw eep
over him f or losing it in front of the o ld sage. Gerber giv es
him a wink and motions off as he goes to the newsagent. Just
as that happens, Culbert’s p hone rings. He is fille d with a
grateful feeling for Gerber’s council and nearly lets the c all go
to voicemail. Reaching into his pocket, he sees the call is from
Alan Joyce, AC, the QANTAS CEO.
“G’day Alan, ho w are y ou? To what do I o we this
unexpected pleasure?” Culbert is surprised at the sudden call.
“Oh, stop the c eremony, Ge off, y ou knew this c all w as
eventually going to c ome.” Joyce’s b anter is p layful and he
helps to relieve some of Culbert’s discomfort, sharpening him
into focus.
“What do you mean, Alan?” Culbert is eager to learn what
this is about. “We’re going b ack in the air,” Jo yce e xplains.
“What? When?” Culbert c an hardly believ e what he is
hearing. “Well, that’s what I’m c alling you about, Ge off. We
want to start ramping things up over the next couple of weeks.
My sales team has be en hard at it, p lanning big ev ents,
booking telly slots and w e’re going to go hard—and I mean
really hard. In fact, you might ha ve seen me on the telly this
morning...” Culbert thinks hard and remembers v aguely
seeing Jo yce on the morning news as he darte d out of the
house. “Yeah, but I thought y ou w ere jo king!” Culbert
immediately regrets what he said.
130 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 155]
“Hahaha, you’re the joker, Geoff! Seriously, I want to know
whether you guys are ready to go so we can start rolling again.”
Joyce, sounds like he w ants to get do wn to business. “Alan,
just give me ten minutes to get b ack to my desk where I ha ve
my notes and I can run you through the plan. Okay?”
At that moment, Gerber returns when Culbert shouts at
him, “you’ll never guess who that was!” “Alan Joyce?” Gerber
quips back with a wry wink. “How did you know?” Culbert
is like a y oung kid, ha ving w atched a magician. “Richard
[Goyder] called last night and said Alan w ould be in touch.
Now, what are we going to do?”
How and in what time frame will Sydney Airport Holdings
return to full sc ale of operations? What are the short term,
medium term and long term strategy priorities? What imp act
will a se cond airport in Sy dney ha ve on Sy dney Airport
Holdins Limited?

References
Abbott, A., 2021, ‘CoV iD’s M ental-Health T oll: Ho w
Scientists are T racking a Surge in Depression’, Nature, 3
February 2021, [online] https://www.nature.com/articles/
d41586-021-00175-z, accessed 14 June 2021.
AusTrade, 2021, International Freig ht Assista nce
Mechanism, Australian T rade and In vestment Commission,
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 131

[Page 156]
[online] https://www.austrade.gov.au/news/news/
international-freight-assistancemechanism, accessed 25
October 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), 2021a, ‘Househo ld
Financial Resourc es’, 30 June 2021 [online]
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/economy/finance/
household-financialresources/latest-release, accessed 21
October 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), 2021b , ‘Re corded
Crime – V ictims’, 24 June 2021 [online]
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/people/crime-and-justice/
recorded-crimevictims/2020, accessed 21 October 2021.
Australian Federal Police (AFP), n. d., ‘Our w ork at ma jor
airports’, [online] https://www.afp.gov.au/what-we-do/ourwork-airports, accessed 21 October 2021.
Australian Local Government Association (ALGA), 2021,
2021-2022 Pre-Bu dget Su bmission, [online]
https://treasury.gov.au/sites/default/files/2021-05/
171663_australian_local_government_association.pdf,
accessed 25 October.
Australian Parliament, 2021, Interim Report of t he Inquiry
into Austr alia’s Ski lled Migr ation Progr am: 4. Attr acting
talent a nd ca pital, [online] https://www.aph.gov.au/
Parliamentary_Business/Committees/Joint/Migration/
Skilled MigrationProgram/Report/
section?id=committees%2Freportjnt%2F024650%2F76340,
accessed 25 October 2021.
132 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 157]
Aviation T ransport Secu rity A ct 2004 (Cth) (Austl.)
Aviation T ransport Secu rity Regu lations 2005 , Sele ct
Legislative Instrument No. 18, 2005, made under the Aviation
Transport Se curity Act 2004 [online]
https://www.legislation.gov.au/Details/F2021C00936, last
updated 15 September 2021, accessed 21 October 2021.
Bongiorno, F., 2015, ‘Ho w Australia learne d to be
cosmopolitan’, The Gua rdian, 30 October 2015 [online]
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/australiacultureblog/2015/oct/30/how-australia-learned-to-becosmopolitan, accessed 25 October 2021.
Brent, P., 2020, ‘Together, let’s stick together’, Inside Story,
1 September 2020 [online] https://insidestory.org.au/
together-lets-stick-together/, accessed 24 October 2021.
Cartwright, D., 2021, ‘Victorian Premier Dan Andrews has
Unwittingly Be come a P op Culture Ic on’, News.com.au, 18
February 2021 [online] https://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/
fashion/fashion-trends/victorian-premier-danandrews-hasunwittingly-become-a-pop-culture-icon/newsstory/
3b4c97e88f084742a190baf807789cab, accessed 24 October
2021.
Cater, N., 2021, ‘Bare arms to be fre e of these Co vid [sic.]
nanny states ’, The Austr alian, 30 August 2021 [online,
subscription re quired] https://www.theaustralian.com.au/
commentary/bare-arms-to-be-free-of-thesecovid-nannystates/news-story/8666a7acbad57b39f6d4f7b9c2f79c25,
accessed 24 October 2021.
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 133

[Page 158]
Collier, D .A. & E vans, J.R., 2021, Operations a nd Su pply
Chain Management (2 ed), Cengage, Melbourne, Australia.
Daley, J., 2019, ‘The po litics of infrastructure’, Grattan
Institute, 12 September 2019 [online] https://grattan.edu.au/
news/the-politics-of-infrastructure/, accessed 25 October
2021.
Davis, A., 2021, ‘Gladys Berejiklian cuts her daily press
conference just as NSW Co vid [sic.] c ases peak—that is a
dereliction of duty’, The Gua rdian, 10 September 2021
[online] https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/
sep/10/gladys-berejiklian-cutsher-nsw-daily-press-conferencejust-as-covid-cases-peak-that-is-a-dereliction-of-duty, accessed
24 October 2021.
Deloitte The Netherlands, 2020, Global Port Trends 2030,
[online] https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/
nl/Documents/consumerbusiness/deloitte-nl-cb-global-porttrends-2030.pdf, accessed 22 October 2021.
Department of Infrastructure, T ransport, Regional
Development and Communic ations (DITRDC), 2020,
‘Western Sydney Airport: Airport Plan / July 2020’, [online]
https://www.westernsydneyairport.gov.au/sites/default/files/
documents/wsaairport-plan-2020.pdf, accessed 22 October
2021.
Department of Infrastructure, T ransport, Regional
Development and Communic ations (DITRDC), 2021,
‘Designated International Airports in Australia ’, [online]
https://www.infrastructure.gov.au/infrastructure134 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 159]
transportvehicles/aviation/international-aviation/
multilateral-forums/icao/internationalairports, accessed 21
October 2021.
Department of Home Aff airs (DHA), 2021, ‘Defining
critical infrastructure’, [online] https://www.cisc.gov.au/
what-is-the-cyber-and-infrastructure-securitycentre/definingcritical-infrastructure, Cyber a nd Infr astructure Secu rity
Centre, last update d 31 August 2021, ac cessed 21 October
2021.
Geoscience Australia (GA), 2021 ‘ Australia’s Size
Compared’, [online] https://www.ga.gov.au/scientific-topics/
national-locationinformation/dimensions/australias-sizecompared, accessed 21 October 2021.
Gerson, M., 2021, ‘Opinion: Wh y did Biden w ant the
Afghanistan withdrawal tied to the 20th anniversary of 9/11?’,
The W ashington Post , 23 August 2021 [online]
https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2021/08/23/
biden-afghanistanwithdrawal-911-anniversary-talibancelebration/, accessed 24 October 2021.
Grattan, M., 2021, ‘View from the Hill: There’s No Getting
Away from It – We’ve All Failed Afghanistan’s Hopeful Girls’,
The Conversati on, 16 August 2021 [online]
https://theconversation.com/view-from-the-hill-theres-nogetting-away-from-itweve-all-failed-afghanistans-hopefulgirls-166205, accessed 24 October 2021.
Hitch, G., 2021, ‘What are the changes to JobKe eper and
JobSeeker? Government announc es tw eaks to c oronavirus
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 135

[Page 160]
programs’, ABC News , 21 July 2021 [online]
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-07-21/changesjobkeeper-and-jobseekercoronavirus-payments-explained/
12476174, accessed 24 October 2021.
Hofstede, G. (2001) Culture’s Consequ ences, Sage
Publishing, London, UK.
Hunt, E., 2017, ‘F acial recognition to rep lace passports in
security o verhaul at Australian airports ’, The Gua rdian, 22
January 2017 [online] https://www.theguardian.com/
australia-news/2017/jan/22/facial-recognition-toreplacepassports-in-security-overhaul-at-australian-airports, accessed
25 October 2021.
IbisWorld, 2021, ‘Sy dney Airport – Australian Comp any
Profile’, [online] https://www.ibisworld.com/au/company/
sydney-airport/9925/, accessed 24 October 2021.
Infrastructure Victoria, 2019, Preparing Advice on Victoria’s
Future Ports Ca pacity, [Discussion P aper, online]
https://www.infrastructurevictoria.com.au/wpcontent/
uploads/2019/04/Preparing-advice-on-Victorias-futureports-capacity.pdf, accessed 25 October 2021.
Intelligent In vestor, 2021, ‘Sy dney Airport (SYD) –
Financials’, [online] https://www.intelligentinvestor.com.au/
shares/asx-syd/sydney-airport/financials, accessed 24 October
2021.
Jose, R., & Duran, P., 2021, ‘Melbourne police arrest 200 at
COVID-19 [sic.] lockdo wn protests’, Reuters, 22 September
2021 [online] https://www.reuters.com/world/asiapacific/
136 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 161]
locked-down-melbourne-braces-more-protestscovid-19-cases-rise-2021-0922/, accessed 24 October 2021.
Kapfere, B. & M orris, B., 2003, ‘The Australian Society
of the State: Egalitarian Ide ologies and New Dire ctions in
Exclusionary Practice’, Social Analysis, 47(3), pp.80-107.
Knaus, C., 2021, ‘W atchdog with bite: Ic ac [sic.] claims
another premier [sic.] with demise of Gladys Berejiklian’, The
Guardian, 2 October 2021 [online]
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/oct/02/
watchdog-with-bite-icacclaims-another-scalp-with-demise-ofgladys-berejiklian, accessed 24 October 2021.
Knight, E. (2021) “Where’s So lly? Lew’s gone quiet on
Myer, but he’s not gone a way”, The Sydney Morning Herald,
4 M arch 2021, [online] https://www.smh.com.au/business/
companies/where-s-solly-lew-s-gone-quiet-onmyer-but-he-snot-gone-away-20210304-p577ui.html, accessed 24 October
2021. Koenig, D ., 2021, ‘Ho w 9/11 Change d Air T ravel:
More Security, Less Privacy’, AP News, 6
September 2021 [online] https://apnews.com/article/howsept-11-changed-flying1ce4dc4282fb47a34c0b61ae09a024f4,
accessed 24 October 2021.
Lehane, S., 2014, ‘ Australia’s Water Security Part 1: W ater
Resources’, Future Di rections Internati onal, [report] 16
September 2014, [online]
https://www.futuredirections.org.au/publication/australia-swater-security-part-1water-resources/, accessed 29 July 2021.
Mao, F., 2021, ‘Wh y has Australia switche d tack on Co vid
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 137

[Page 162]
[sic.] zero?’, BBC News , 3 September 2021 [online]
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-australia-58406526,
accessed 24 October 2021.
Marin-Guzman, D., 2021, ‘P ort strikes threaten to c ripple
Christmas’, The Australian Fi nancial Revi ew, 27 September
2021n [online, subsc ription re quired] https://www.afr.com/
work-and-careers/workplace/port-strikes-threaten-tocripplechristmas-20210926-p58usq, accessed 24 October
2021.
McCauly, D. (2018) ‘Emp loyers Say Unions are Irrelev ant
After Latest M embership Decline’, Sydney Morning Herald,
29 No vember 2018 [online] https://www.smh.com.au/
politics/federal/employers-say-unions-are-irrelevantafterlatest-membership-decline-20181129-p50j5h.html,
accessed 27 July 2021.
McKinnell, J., 2021, ‘Everything you wanted to know about
Ben Roberts-Smith’s def amation c ase’, ABC News , 30 June
2021 [online] https://www.abc.net.au/news/2021-0630/benroberts-smith-defamation-trial-explainer/100236662, accessed
24 October 2021.
Mogul, R., 2021, ‘ Australian ad sho wing Co vid [sic.]
patient gasping for air sparks backlash as country battles Delta
variant’, CNN, 13 July 2021 [online]
https://edition.cnn.com/2021/07/12/australia/covid-adbacklash-australia-intlhnk/index.html, accessed 24 October
2021.
Morgan, B., 2020, ’50 W ays Comp anies are Giving Back
138 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 163]
During the Corona virus P andemic’, Forbes, 17 M arch 2020
[online] https://www.forbes.com/sites/blakemorgan/2020/
03/17/50-ways-companies-aregiving-back-during-the-coronapandemic/?sh=74a5dc154723, accessed 25 October 2021.
Morgan, R., 2021, ‘Subsc ription T V view ers so ar during
Aussie lockdown – Netflix, Foxtel, Stan, Disney+ & Amazon
Prime all up significantly’, Roy Morgan, 21 July 2020 [online]
https://www.roymorgan.com/findings/8472-subscriptionpay-tv-services-may-2020202007200704, accessed 25 October
2021.
Murtough, G., P earson, K. & W reford, P . (1998) ‘T rade
Liberalisation and E arnings Distribution in Australia ’,
Productivity Commission: Industry Commission Staff Research
Paper, F ebruary 1998 [online] https://www.pc.gov.au/
research/supporting/trade-liberalisation/tradelib.pdf,
accessed 14 June 2021.
Ports Australia, 2021, Ports Austr alia [website]
https://www.portsaustralia.com.au, accessed 21 October
2021.
Port Authority NSW , 2019, ‘P ort Saf ety Operating
Licence’, [online] https://www.portauthoritynsw.com.au/
media/3414/port-safety-operatinglicence2018-2023-v10-final-19-december-2018.pdf, accessed
25 October 2021.
Quiggin, J., 2021, ‘Do v accination p assports take a way
freedoms? It depends on ho w you frame the question’, The
Conversation, 2 September 2021 [online]
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 139

[Page 164]
https://theconversation.com/do-vaccination-passports-takeaway-freedoms-itdepends-on-how-you-frame-thequestion-166963, accessed 25 October 2021.
Rajan, A., 2020, ‘T V watching and online streaming surge
during lockdo wn’, BBC News , 5 August 2020 [online]
https://www.bbc.com/news/entertainment-arts-53637305,
accessed 25 October 2021.
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), 2021a, ‘Snapshot
Comparison’, [online] https://www.rba.gov.au/education/
resources/digital-interactives/snapshotcomparison/, accessed
21 October 2021.
Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), 2021b , ‘Key E conomic
Indicators Snapshot’, 7 October 2021, [online]
https://www.rba.gov.au/snapshots/economyindicatorssnapshot/pdf/economy-indicatorssnapshot.pdf?v=2021-10-21-18-27-10, accessed 21 October
2021.
Rourke, A., 2011, ‘Qantas [sic.] grounds entire w orldwide
fleet’, The Gua rdian, 30 October 2011 [online]
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2011/oct/29/
qantas-groundsfleet-industrial-action, accessed 27 October
2021.
Roussi, A., 2020, ‘Resisting the rise of f acial recognition’,
Nature, 18 No vember 2020 [online]
https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-03188-2,
accessed 25 October 2021. Saul, A., Sc ott, N. Crabb , B.S.,
Majumdar, S.S., Coghlan, B & Hellard, M.E. (2020) ‘Imp act
140 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 165]
of Victoria’s Stage 3 Lockdown on CoViD-19 Case Numbers’,
Medical Journal of Australia, 213(11), pp.494-6.
Scarr, L., 2021, ‘Prime Minister Sc ott Morrison and UK’s
Boris Johnson Speak on the Phone About Afghanistan Crisis’,
The W est Austr alian, 20 August 2021 [online]
https://thewest.com.au/news/world/prime-minister-scottmorrison-and-uks-borisjohnson-speak-on-phone-aboutafghanistan-crisis-ng-b881975368z, accessed 24 October
2021.
Smiths, 2019, ‘Smiths Dete ction to Enhanc e Sy dney
Airport’s Carry-on Bag and Ho ld Baggage Sc reening with
Computed T omography (CT) Base d Exp losive Dete ction
System’, 27 October 2019 [press release, online]
https://www.smiths.com/news-andmedia/2019/10/smithsdetection-to-enhance-sydney-airports-carry-on-bag-andholdbaggage-screening, accessed 25 October 2021.
Sydney Airport Ho ldings, 2020, Annual Report 2020:
Protect a nd Re build, [statutory annual report, online]
https://assets.ctfassets.net/v228i5y5k0x4/
3df9nJtWo1HH3ohhIhAGFP/4c0011e1ab8f
6a4fd7006d4ab8336d3c/2020_Annual_Report.pdf, accessed
21 October 2021.
Thomas, E., 2021, ‘What’s W rong with Calling the
Melbourne Protests “F ar Right”?’, Australian Security Policy
Institute, 24 September 2021 [online]
https://www.aspistrategist.org.au/whats-wrong-with-callingthe-melbourne-protestsfar-right/, accessed 24 October 2021.
SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022 AND
BEYOND | 141

[Page 166]
US Government Publishing Office, 2011, ‘Ten Years After
9/11: Assessing Airport Se curity and Prev enting a Future
Terrorist Attack’, [online] https://www.govinfo.gov/content/
pkg/CHRG-112hhrg73356/html/
CHRG-112hhrg73356.htm, Subcommittee on Oversig ht,
Investigations, a nd Ma nagement of t he Com mittee on
Homeland Security, House of Representatives, 112 Congress , 16
September 2011, accessed 21 October 2021.
The W orld Bank, 2007, ‘P ort Ref orm T oolkit: The
Evolution of P orts in a Competitiv e World’ (2nd E d), The
World Ba nk, [online] https://ppiaf.org/sites/ppiaf.org/files/
documents/toolkits/Portoolkit/Toolkit/pdf/mod ules/
02_TOOLKIT_Module2.pdf, accessed 22 October 2021.
142 | SYDNEY AIRPORT HOLDINGS – BACK TO BUSINESS IN 2022
AND BEYOND

[Page 167]
7.
TEMPLE & WEBSTER
GROUP LIMITED
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
Mr M ark Coulter, chief e xecutive officer (CEO) of T emple
& Webster Group Limite d (Temple & Webster) was briefing
journalists on the latest set of results: ‘W e’ve done all the
modelling that suggests that if w e actually go hard no w, grow
faster and outperf orm our pe ers, while the market is c oming
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 143

[Page 168]
online...and be come a dominant f orce in furniture and
homewares retailing, then that is an optimising strategy”
(Greenblat, 2022: 17). The big issue right now is – has Coulter
got it right?
Temple & Webster in its 2021 first half financial year results
informed the market of a 40 per cent decline in first half profit
and no dividend; the positiv e in the results is another
substantial inc rease in sales. T emple & W ebster c ould be
interested in the right merger and ac quisition (M & A) target
at the right pric e. However Coulter and his team ha ve more
to think about after operational pressures due to gro wth
impacted net promoter sc ore statistics in 2021. T emple &
Webster ne ed to sta y on top of brand dev elopment and
operations management as they dev elop shareholder value in
the business.
An Uncertain Business
Environment in the
2020-2022 Pandemic
The wider community and the corporate scene are increasingly
aware of the importanc e of prote cting the natural
environment, this includes the use of sustainab le business
practices. At the Glasgo w Summit in 2021 the M orrison
Government c ommitted Australia to net zero c arbon
emissions by 2050 (Chambers & Brown, 2022).
144 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 169]
An Australian Federal election is due in May with economic
issues likely to be front and c entre of the deb ate – c ost of
living, interest rates, emp loyment gro wth and rising w ages
(Dusevic, 2022), while the Western Australian border remains
closed and international tra vel to the east c oast is starting to
grow.
Global inflationary pressures are starting to strengthen,
especially in the Unite d States, due to international supp ly
chain disruptions related to the Covid-19 pandemic (Dusevic,
2022). The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) e xpects the rate
of inflation to settle in the tw o to thre e per c ent target b and
later in 2022. Commonwealth Bank of Australia foresee a cash
rate peak of 1.25 per c ent compared with Westpac’s 1.75 per
cent around March 2024 (Dusevic, 2022).
During the most difficult moments of the Co vid-19
pandemic in Australia State Go vernments held lockdo wns of
varying length to limit citizen mo vement, reducing the rate of
Covid-19 infection and saving lives. The Federal Government
stepped up with Job keeper payments to help businesses and
individuals through these difficult da ys (Fry denberg &
Corrman, 2020). Hotel quarantine w as use d to f acilitate
international and interstate tra vel. Australia no w has a strong
national v accination rate and all states e xcept W estern
Australia have opened their borders. The omic ron variant has
resulted in high rates of c ommunity inf ection but it is less
likely to lead to hospitalisation or death c ompared with earlier
variants; ho wever the emergenc e of omic ron has le d to a
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 145

[Page 170]
‘shadow lockdo wn’ with man y in the c ommunity quite
conservative in their day to day movement and activity as they
seek to a void infection. This is imp acting small businesses in
sectors such as bricks and mortar retail.
There is a strong push in the international and Australian
corporate sc ene f or businesses to not only be w orking f or
shareholders but also to be having a social impact in areas such
as indigenous reconciliation, helping the homeless, prote cting
woman and children from domestic violence, and more.
There is a structural shift at p lay in the retail market as
consumers shift from bricks and mortar retail to online retail
– and this is p articularly suite d to furniture and homew ares
(Greenblat, 2022). The a vailability of the Android and App le
operating systems, plus the use of artificial intelligenc e are all
useful technological tools digital entrepreneurs can put to use
(Temple & Webster, 2021).
A range of legal issues imp act stock e xchange liste d retail
industry operators in Australian. There are serious
consequences for Australian corporates for breaches of any of
the relevant Acts that app ly to a business setting. In Australia
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 sets out
competition and f air trading la w, and pro vides protection to
consumers. The Corporations Act 2001 articulates la ws
applicable to c orporations including dire ctor’s duties. The
Australian Se curities and In vestment Commission, and the
Australian Prudential Authority o versee the Australian Stock
Exchange, merger and acquisition activity between corporates,
146 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 171]
and the financial servic es sc ene. F oreign in vestment in
Australia is o verseen b y the Australian F oreign In vestment
Review Bo ard while trade practic es are o verseen b y the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. The
current Australian company tax rate is 30% compared with the
United States at 21%.
Retail Industry Trends
Government enforced Covid-19 lockdowns in 2020 and 2021
meant that consumer discretionary spending moved from the
travel c ategory to furniture and homew ares. There has be en
a stronger mo ve in retail a way from traditional bricks and
mortar to online b y shoppers in re cent y ears, this has be en
accelerated b y the Co vid-19 p andemic. The furniture and
homewares market in Australia is worth A$16 billion annually
and only 10 per c ent of this spend is online (T emple &
Webster, 2021). This is w ell behind the Unite d States market
with up to 25 per c ent online market penetration and this
looks to be inc reasing; this will be driv en b y millennials
entering their c ore furniture and homew ares buying p hase of
their lifecycle (Temple & Webster, 2021).
There is strong and intense riv alry on the Australian retail
scene, both online and in traditional bricks and mortar. Great
rivals include Bunnings, Harv ey Norman, Premier
Investments Limite d, Nick Sc ali Limite d, Adairs Limite d,
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 147

[Page 172]
King Living, Sp ace Furniture and more. T o get an idea of
comparative financial strength Harv ey Norman stock market
capitalisation is A$6.63 billion, Nick Sc ali Limite d A$1.06
billion, Adairs Limite d A$531.5 million, c ompared with
Temple & W ebster A$988.92 million (Australian Stock
Exchange, 2022).
Suppliers in the retail industry tend to be located in clusters
in emerging economies. A low level of differentiation between
factories leads them to se ek endorsement from prominent
brand retailers (e.g., Gap) to build new business. As emerging
economies be come more dev eloped c osts inc rease, resulting
in this lo w c ost manuf acturing activity shifting to ev en less
developed e conomic loc ations such as Bangladesh and
Pakistan (Obe, 2019).
A further issue for supplier power is the use of transparency
indices exposing ethical sourcing standards in dev eloped and
developing countries. What this does is impose w estern ideals
on developing country locations where bribery, graft and child
labour practic es c an oc cur. This c an be of great c oncern to
businesses seeking to imp lement an ethic al sourcing program
(Kim, Colicchia & Menchof, 2016)
In retail small entrants regularly emerge, ho wever larger
footprint brands rarely enter the market unless they ha ve
substantial capital backing them. Distribution and rental costs
for retailers in Australia is e xpensive and during the pandemic
consumers w ere spending frugally on traditional retail. The
ongoing threat of w ell inf ormed, p hysically mobile and
148 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 173]
digitally savvy consumers also makes it tough for small retailers
to estab lish themselv es. In man y shopping strips around
Melbourne and Sydney smaller retailers have been closing their
doors, evidenc ed b y the numbers of empty shop fronts in
Chapel Street Prahran.
There are f ew true substitutes f or retail shopping; online
retailing is not a substitute as it is the digital transition of the
retail e xperience; new entries might find w ays to make their
brand and/or products popular. Diff erent p ayment modes
and other finance options may make the retail e xperience and
the act of purchasing more appealing to consumers.
Temple & Webster Group
Limited Strategic Situation
Strategy
CEO Mark Coulter articulates the T emple & Webster (2021:
9) clear and simple strategy:
We want to have the biggest and best range – ha ving
everything y ou ne ed f or the home. Importantly , the
“best” bit of this means w e w on’t list ev erything. We
want to be se en as a p lace for quality, at an aff ordable
price; w e w ant to be a sourc e of inspiration and the
place customers go to when they w ant to make their
home more beautiful; and w e want to create a seamless
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 149

[Page 174]
customer e xperience when shopping, including our
customer’s experience of the delivery to their home.
Currently the f ocus for Temple & Webster is sales gro wth,
building brand understanding and re cognition, and
developing the customer b ase (Gre enblat, 2022). T emple &
Webster are e xpecting synergies to c ome from building close
relationships with supp liers, dev eloping e xclusive product
ranges, investing in technology and data, and growing logistics
capability. The Temple & Webster customer proposition will
improve with the achiev ement of e conomies of sc ale (Temple
& Webster, 2021).
Key Stakeholders
Corporate headquarters is located in Sydney and has hundreds
of supp liers. The dire ctors of T emple & W ebster are
Chairperson Step hen Heath, Susan Thomas, Conrad Yiu,
CEO Mark Coulter and Belinda Ro we. Mr Coulter and Mr
Yiu are c o-founders of the business and the largest
shareholders on the bo ard. It is the view of the bo ard that
employees are the most important stakeholders.
Functional Level
Temple & Webster are ke en to dev elop a sustainab le business
outperforming the furniture and homew ares online c ategory
150 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 175]
(Temple & W ebster, 2021). The brand marketing team has
been gro wn and early f orays into television adv ertising ha ve
been suc cessful. Brand a wareness is 61 per c ent (Gre enblat,
2021)
The customer is the focus of all Temple & Webster do: “Our
vision is to make the w orld more beautiful, one room at a
time” (Temple & Webster, 2021: 11). There is a strong f ocus
on sales growth and improving the net promoter sc ore which
is currently 62 per c ent but did re cently fluctuate to belo w
55% due to pressures in third p arty logistics and the internal
customer servic e c apability (ref er Figure 1 belo w). Business
to business rev enue is up 110 per c ent in 2021, and ‘Priv ate
Label’ is a strategic focus. Active customers – unique customer
who completed a transaction in the p ast 12 months is 62 per
cent. Suc cessful in vestment in te chnology will enhanc e the
probability of future success.
In 2021 there w as a 12 per c ent increase in annual rev enue
per activ e customer which is no w v alued at A$425 and this
metric has impro ved steadily sinc e 2018 (Temple & Webster,
2021).
Operations pressures in the autumn, winter and spring
months of 2021 resulte d in a w orrying drop in this net
promoter score in the se cond and third quarter of 2021. The
executive team and management reacte d w ell inc reasing
capacity to no w five warehouse locations, improving internal
customer service and logistics partner processes and systems to
allow more effective scaling of the business (Gre enblat, 2022).
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 151

[Page 176]
Temple & Webster do not wish to ha ve their own warehouses
and trucks but are loo king f or w ays to gain greater c ontrol
of these activities to ensure a f avourable customer e xperience
(Temple & Webster, 2021).
Temple & W ebster gather a tremendous quantity of retail
data and use this insight to inf orm purchasing, in ventory
management and pricing (Gre enblat, 2022). The business
maintains a v ery lo w level of age d stock. M anufacturing has
now been geographically diversified away from China (Temple
& Webster, 2021).
Given the c ore business is online retail customer data and
privacy is a critical success factor on platforms that are scalable
and secure. The ISO 27001 standard has be en adopted as the
cyber security framework. A Cyber Se curity Officer has be en
appointed at T emple & W ebster and industry e xperts are
regularly called in to pro vide independent audits on po licies,
processes and platforms (Temple & Webster, 2021).
Temple & W ebster are proud of their relativ ely small but
engaged w orkforce being in the top quartile of te chnology
businesses in Australia with an 84 per c ent emp loyee
engagement score. All up 51 per c ent of managers are f emale
and 44 per cent of the e xecutive are female; 95 per cent of the
workforce is proud to work for Temple & Webster (Temple &
Webster, 2021).
Temple & W ebster ha ve the priority of achieving market
leading shareho lder returns; total shareho lder returns are up
7,607 per cent over a five year period, 1,320 per c ent over the
152 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 177]
medium (three year) term, and 71 per cent in the past financial
year (Temple & Webster, 2021). The balance sheet has no debt
with cash and c ash equivalents held totalling A$97.5 million
(2020 A$38.08 million). T able 1 and T able 2 belo w set out
summary financial data.

Table 1: T emple & W ebster Limite d Financial Summary
Financial Y ears 2020-2021 (Temple & W ebster Limite d
Annual Report, 2021)
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 153

[Page 178]
2020
(A$’000)
(A$’000)
+ or -%
Change
Balance Sheet Highlights
Total assets 67,309 148,346 +120.4%
Inventories 6,619 21,341
Intangible assets 7,859 8,091
Total liabilities 37,325 64,342 +72.4%
Current interest bearing
liabilities 0 0
Current lease liabilities 504 1,965
Current derivative financial
liabilities 0 0
Non—current
interest-bearing liabilities 0 0
Non-current lease liabilities 885 5,098
Total equity 29,984 84,004 +180.2%
Profit and Loss Highlights
Revenue
Revenue from contracts with
customers 176,342 326,344 +85.1%
Cost of goods sold (97,721) (178,348)
Gross margin 78,621 147,996
Profit before taxation 8,017 19,160
154 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 179]
2020
(A$’000)
(A$’000)
+ or -%
Change
Income taxation
credit/(expense) 5,892 (5,207)
Profit after taxation 13,909 13,953
Net tangible assets per share 12.28
cents
11.60
cents
Table 2 T emple & W ebster G roup Limite d C ash Fl ows
Summary Financial Years 2020-2021
(Temple & W ebster G roup Limite d Annual Report,
2021)
Cash Flows 2020 2021 + or – %
Change
Net cash flows from operating
activities 25,503 24,506
Net cash flow from investing
activities (570) (2,446)
Net cash flow from financing
activities (390) 37,362
Increase in cash and cash
equivalents 24,543 59,422
Cash and cash equivalents
beginning of the year 13,539 38,082
Cash and cash equivalents
end of year 38,082 97,504 +156%

TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 155

[Page 180]
The Future Strategy
Challenge
CEO Coulter and the bo ard of dire ctors ha ve a range of
considerations. Has Temple & Webster optimised its strategy
raising c apital while c ash flow positiv e, going debt fre e and
not paying a divided to shareholders in 2021? What should be
the brand development plan? Is Temple & Webster on top of
operations management? Should they go de eper into logistics
and customer deliv ery? Should T emple & W ebster be
leveraging its strong balance sheet growth and pushing harder
for gro wth b y gearing up? Is there a suitab le merger and
acquisition prospect out there f or Temple & W ebster? What
would be the characteristics of a suitab le merger and
acquisition prospect?

References
Australian Stock Ex change, 2022, ASX Reta il Compa nies,
https://www.listcorp.com/asx/sectors/consumerdiscretionary/retailing, viewed 17 February 2022.
Chambers, G. & Bro wn, G. 2022, No tax es to hit net zero ,
The Australian, 2 February, p. 1.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2001, Corporations A ct,
Canberra ACT.
156 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 181]
Commonwealth of Australia, 2010, Competition a nd
Consumer Act, Canberra, A CT Commonwealth of Australia,
2011, Work, Health and Safety Act, Canberra, ACT.
Dusevic, T . 2022, E arly rate hike ‘risks job less rate’, The
Weekend Australian, 12 February, p. 2.
Frydenberg, J. and Corrman, M. 2020, Economic and fiscal
update, 23 July , Australian T reasury, Canberra, A CT,
https://ministers.treasury.gov.au/ministers/joshfrydenberg-2018/mediareleases/economic-andfiscalupdate#:~:text=Net%20debt%20is%20expected%20to,G
DP)%20at%2030%20June%202021.
&text=Despite%20the%20support%20to%20the,quarter%20b
y%207%20per%20cent, downloaded 31 July 2020.
Greenblat, E. 2022, Temple & Webster goes for growth, The
Australian, 10 February, p. 17.
Kim, S., Co licchia, C. & M enachof, D . (2016) ‘E thical
Sourcing: An Analysis of the Literature and Imp lications for
Future Research’, Journal of Busi ness Et hics, 152(5),
pp.1033-52.
Lowe, P . 2020. Co vid-19, the labour market and pub lic
sector balance sheets, Address to the Anika Foundation Online,
21 July , https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2020/spgov-2020-0721.html, downloaded 28 July 2020.
Obe, M. (2019) ‘P akistan garment makers chase riv als in
India and Bangladesh’, Nikkei Asian Review 25 August 2019
[online] https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Business-trends/
TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON RETAIL
INDUSTRY DISRUPTION | 157

[Page 182]
Pakistangarment-makers-chase-rivals-in-India-andBangladesh, accessed 15 February 2020.
Temple & W ebster Group Limite d, 2021, Annual Report ,
viewed 17 February 2022.
158 | TEMPLE & WEBSTER GROUP LIMITED: CAPITALISING ON
RETAIL INDUSTRY DISRUPTION

[Page 183]
8.
CYCLONE METALS
LIMITED 2022 – THE
CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION,
FINANCE AND POLITICS
By Tim O’Shannassy and Justin Pierce
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 159

[Page 184]
Background
Mining, entertainment and sport entrepreneur and Cy clone
Metals Limited Executive Director Tony Sage has a suc cessful
track record in scouring the globe for distressed mining assets,
improving those assets and then selling them for a profit.
Sage has more than 30 y ears of e xperience in c orporate
advisory, c apital raising and funds management. His c areer
highlights include the sale of the “Cape Lambert” magnetite
project to Metallurgical Corp of China for $400 million. Cape
Lambert Resourc es Limite d change d its name to Cy clone
Metals Limite d in October 2020 (Cape Lambert Resourc es
Limited, 2020). He is the o wner of P erth Glory in the ALeague (Ker and Spooner, 2012).
Sage’s business interests include a number of stock exchange
listed and priv ate c ompanies with man y of these c ompanies
holding stakes in each other (Ker and Spooner, 2012). Cyclone
Metals Limite d, f ormerly Cape Lambert Limite d, c ould be
Sage’s ne xt big mining industry p lay – or it ma y go into
administration if its b alance sheet and liquidity prob lems are
not reso lved. The situation is delic ately poise d evidenc ed b y
problems in Sierra Le one mine exploration and development,
a plummeting share price, problems with the Australian Stock
Exchange (ASX), and a share pric e w ell off its peak in the
AU$0.60 cents range in 2011 (ASX, 2021).
Fluctuations in share pric e are a c ommon occurrence with
exploratory mining c ompanies, with share pric es so aring on
160 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 185]
good news and sinking on b ad news. There are man y
exploratory mining c ompanies on the ASX with some
enjoying success and becoming the next big thing in Australian
industry, and many falling by the wayside. This highlights the
importance f or mine e xplorers of loc ating quality mining
projects, estab lishing proje ct financ e (debt and/or e quity),
establishing mining operations and generating c ore cash flow
from operations to underpin the firm share pric e and provide
a return to financiers.
Cyclone M etals Limite d no w has interests in e xploration
and mining c ompanies with e xposure to go ld, iron ore, rare
earths, uranium, c opper, lithium, lead, silv er and zinc in
Australia and offshore in Afric a, South Americ a and Europe.
The future of Cyclone Metals Limited is delicately poised after
its re cent trading reinstatement on the ASX 3 August 2021
(Cyclone M etals Limite d, 2021a). What will be Sage’s ne xt
strategy moves?
An Uncertain Business
Environment
The glob al c oronavirus p andemic brought with it fresh
political tensions to an already c olourful national agenda.
Where Australia had, f or a time, be en view ed as po litically
unstable with its frequent changes in Prime Ministers (Perrigo,
2018), the F ederal and State go vernments’ responses to the
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 161

[Page 186]
coronavirus p andemic po larised the po litical divide further
than it already was (Gao, 2021; Molloy, 2018). State Premiers
attempted to dodge criticism by pointing fingers at the Federal
government (Kenny, 2021), which languished in the throes of
its o wn se xual abuse sc andals (M ao, 2021). Initially, Prime
Minister Sc ott M orrison and Health Minister Greg Hunt
secured the rights to loc ally manuf acture the AstraZene ca
vaccine (Dalzell, 2020), which quickly f ell out of v ogue with
a flurry of me dia-fuelled misinf ormation, hysteria and p anic
surrounding blood-clotting concerns (Hull, 2021).
Meanwhile, State go vernment-enforced lockdo wns and
other restrictions to personal fre edoms constrained economic
activity. Large businesses w ere ab le to absorb the do wnturn
whereas small-tome dium enterprises (SMEs)—p articularly
those in hospitality and entertainment—f aced the unenviable
decision to close and to furlough emp loyees (Weber, 2020;
Speers, 2021). Consequently, many Australians were without
work, leaning on the Australian go vernment’s JobKeeper and
JobSeeker economic stimuli (Coates & No lan, 2020). Despite
the initial e conomic shock and me dia flurry , Australian
economic indic ators remain among the strongest in the
Western world. Table 1 belo w illustrates the ma jor economic
indicators as of November 2021.

Table 1: Australia ’s M ajor E conomic Indic ators –
November 2021 (Reserve Bank of Australia, 2021)
162 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 187]
Indicator December 2021 Measure
Cash Rate 0.1%
Economic Growth 9.6%
Inflation 3.0%
Unemployment 4.6%
Employment Growth 2.4%
Wage Growth 1.7%
Household Saving Ratio 9.7%
Average Weekly Earnings $1,305.80
Net Foreign Liabilities / GDP 44.5%
AUD / USD $0.74

Australia’s great toll poppy syndrome (Shapiro, 2021) grew
out of its egalitarianism, but it is not a pre disposition unique
to Australia. Through their egalitarianism Australians
demand and p ay equal respect to ev eryone, and there are no
castes; if you are waiting in line and the Prime Minister c omes
along, he or she c annot push in front of y ou! Australians
also cannot stand a bludger, defined as a lazy person in w ork
(Australian National Univ ersity, 2017), which is a testament
to the Australian work ethic. With these broad characteristics,
Australians reacted to impose d lockdowns with these aspe cts
to emerge as one of the most resilient pe ople—especially
Victorians, who endure d a total of 267 da ys locke d do wn
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 163

[Page 188]
(Boaz, 2021). Lockdowns fundamentally change d the f abric
of our society with homeschoo ling, working-from-home, and
home-cooking be coming widespread trends (Australian
Bureau of Statistics, 2021).
Automation, artificial intelligenc e, machine learning and
the Internet of things c ontinue to dominate adv ances in
technology both in terms of dev elopment and adoption
(Eckert, Loop, Berlin, Strott, Wendin, Bissell, Open & Lasko ,
2017). These are at the cutting edge of te chnological
endeavour and engender a sense that the singularity is coming
(Pandya, 2019). The pro liferation of social me dia has
irreversibly penetrate d the social f abric, but this tethering is
a social c oncern rather than a te chnological one (Schroe der,
2016; Hurley, 2019). These technologies are built on top of
swipe interf aces, adv ances in the miniaturisation and
digitisation of c ameras, and steady inc reases in data transf er
speeds (Bogea & Zamith Brito , 2018). With these
advancements, ho wever, c ome inc reasing threats to
information security (Pierce, Jones & Warren, 2006) and firms
in all industries must be on guard against these threats.
Australia’s land mass is 7.692 million km2, ac counting for
less than 5% of the w orld’s land area and is rich in natural
resources (Ge oscience Australia, 2021). Considered to
engender a ‘harsh’ en vironment, Australia w eathers extremes
of nature, enduring heat c omparable to the Sahara and c old
comparable to the UK (cf. Richards, 2016; M cCarthy, 2016).
The deserts that c onsume most of Australia ’s land b ase push
164 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 189]
inhabitation toward coastal areas, where multiculturalism and
cosmopolitanism abound (Bongiorno, 2015). Australia’s little
rainfall results in drought, which propels w ater conservation
efforts, and soil salinity and acidification are ongoing concerns
for agriculture produc ers (State of the En vironment, 2016).
The Indian Ocean dipole, and El-Niño and La-Niña Southern
Oscillations buo y periods of c yclonic activity in the tropics
and, when c ombined with the Roaring 40s—that squeeze air
between Antarctica and Argentina—make southern Australia
feel as cold as Norway (Department of Agriculture, Water and
the Environment, 2019).
A c onstitutional monarch y, Australia is heade d b y HM
Queen Elizabeth, II, whose e xecutive po wers are largely
ceremonial and delegated to the Go vernor-General. Australia
is also a f ederation of states, which means that legal po wer is
distributed according to the Constitution. The High Court
is the highest po wer, effectively meaning the regent’s ro le is
purely c eremonial (P arliament of Australia, n. d.). Since the
1970s, Australia has set about inc reasing the ro le of the fre e
market and its po licy and legal en vironment f ocuses on
ensuring the liberalisation of markets. It means that noncriminal legal activity in Australia tends to focus on consumer
protection (Murtough, Pearson & Wreford, 1998).
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 165

[Page 190]
The Industry Context
The Australian mining industry is capital intensive with world
class riv als that include Rio Tinto Limite d, BHP Group
Limited, F ortescue M etals Group Limite d, Hanc ock
Prospecting Pty Ltd all in vesting significantly and deliv ering
strong financial results. V ale SA has the sc ale of iron ore
operations to be a viable competitor. Notable on the ASX are
a number of smaller more spe culative mining stocks such as
Cyclone Metals Limited and Cauldron Energy Limited which
are a characteristic of the Australian economy.
To c ontinue to operate in the industry re quires lic enses,
investments in safety and, of c ourse, a trained and competent
workforce, which is hea vily unionise d. Many of the great
industry competitors have been buoyed by share capital and a
track record of strong cash flow generation facilitating regular
dividends (Fortescue Metals Limited, 2019).
Traditionally, China w as the w orld’s largest iron ore
customer and because of its enormous production of iron ore,
Australia’s largest trading p artner as a result. There are other
nations that ha ve natural resourc es (e.g., Afric a, South
American countries) but a limite d number of produc ers that
each have significant market power and a financial system and
supporting go vernment agencies that will f acilitate
development. However, iron ore and other natural resourc es
are commodities, which means that buy ers must p ay the
‘market price.’ China’s interest in iron ore resourc es in Africa
166 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 191]
has led some Australian miners to take an interest in c ountries
including Sierra Le one and Guinea though this does c ome
with po litical and legal risk associate d with c orruption, w ar,
and human rights (Ker, 2021).
Suppliers to the Australian mining industry are c onnected
to the loc al communities in which incumbents operate. For
example, the Olympic Dam mine in South Australia w as set
up b y BHP Limite d, and includes infrastructure o wned b y
BHP Limite d but servic ed b y a number of subc ontractors.
The labour f or these mines is unionise d but highly skille d,
operating in a fly-in-fly-out mode. It means the loc ations are
often undesirab le living loc ations and must include suitab le
infrastructure including groc ery, medical, beauty, fitness, and
other amenities (Fortescue Metals Limited, 2019).
Natural resources such as iron ore, aluminium, copper, and
even petrochemic als are v ery difficult to substitute. These
materials are use d in c onstruction, te chnology, automobiles,
and many other products ne eded b y modern civilisation. A
substitute material being trialle d in automobiles is c arbon
fibre, which, ap art from being much lighter than ste el, is
proving to be much stronger and easier to w ork with in its
production (Aston M artin Lagonda Glob al Ho ldings p lc,
2021).
Critical success factors required for survival in the mining
industry include e xploration, mining servic es, w orkforce,
community engagement, oc cupational health and saf ety,
transport, transport te chnology, netw ork allianc es,
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 167

[Page 192]
distribution channels, mining engine ering, and research and
development.
Challenges Mount for
Cyclone Metals Limited
Tony Sage the Ex ecutive Director at Cy clone Metals Limited
has made a f ortune taking a financial interest in
underperforming mining assets, impro ving the v alue of those
assets, and selling f or a profit. He is supporte d b y tw o nonexecutive directors and Company Secretary Melissa Chapman.
Cyclone M etals Limite d Group Structure is pro vided in
Figure 1 below (Cyclone Metals Limited, 2021, p3.). Cyclone
Metals Limite d has a range of e xploration proje cts and
investments in liste d and unliste d entities, with thre e
exploration proje cts on the Australian mainland and one in
Sierra Leone. The investor relations web sites of liste d entities
Fe Limited, Cauldron Energy Limited and European Lithium
Limited can be viewed on their respective web sites.
168 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 193]
Figure 1: Cyclone Metals Limited Group
Structure (Cyclone Metals Limited, 2021a, p3.). Copyright
Cyclone Metals Limited. Used with permission.
The Nicko l Riv er Proje ct preliminary data report sho ws
several areas of interest that will benefit from test pits to better
understand the geology. A Program of Work is in development
looking at be drock structures and alluvial/eluvial go ld
(Cyclone Metals Limited, 2021b).
The Yalardy Rare E arth Project near Shark Ba y in Western
Australia is sho wing potential f or a burie d diatreme with
potential of a number of rare earth possibilities. Further works
will be undertaken to better understand prospe cts (Cy clone
Metals Limited, 2021a).
Cyclone Metals Limited wholly owned subsidiary Mining
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 169

[Page 194]
International Pty Ltd (Mining International) ho lds f our
mining leases covering 5.3 km2 at the Wee MacGregor Project
40 km southeast of Mount Isa, Queensland. These tenements
located in the Kalkadoon Leichhardt Belt ha ve potential f or
deposits in copper and go ld. Cohiba Minerals Limite d enjoys
a Farm-in agre ement with Mining International Pty Ltd f or
three mining lic ences here – ML 2540, ML 2773 and
ML90098 (Cyclone Metals Limited, 2021a).
There is tremendous demand for iron ore globally, and also
demand f or other metals such as c opper and c ommodities
including diamonds. Countries including China are interested
in geographically diversifying their iron ore supply chain away
from Australia and sho wing particular interest in the Afric an
continent and South America.
The Cy clone M etals Limite d f oray into Sierra Le one has
not gone w ell, with the business e xperiencing some difficult
moments (Cape Lambert Resources Limited, 2020).
Cyclone M etals Limite d ha ve an interest in the M arampa
Project in Sierra Le one, West Afric a. The mine which is in
the development stage is situated 90 kilometres (km) from the
capital, largest city and ma jor Atlantic Oc ean port Fre etown.
The mining lic ence grante d in 2014 (ML05/2014) c overs
97.04 km2 and the e xploration licence (EL46A/2011) c overs
145.86 km2. Cy clone M etals Limite d has spent US$62.7
million on e xploration and dev elopment (Cy clone M etals
Limited). In September 2018 the Sierra Le one Go vernment
formally advise d M arampa Iron Ore (SL) Limite d of the
170 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 195]
cancellation of the mining lic ence. Marampa Iron Ore (SL)
Limited is a who lly o wned subsidiary of Cy clone M etals
Limited. Subse quently M arampa Iron Ore (SL) Limite d
commenced legal action against the SLMOM but has
subsequently de cided to p lace this legal action on ho ld.
Marampa Iron Ore (SL) Limite d does not currently ho ld
tenure over ML05/2014 (Cape Lambert Resourc es Limite d,
2020). Dialogue c ontinues with SLMOM in relation to
reinstatement of lic ence ML05/2014 and Cy clone M etals
Limited remains c ommitted to dev elopment of the proje ct.
The status of the e xploratory lic ence EL46A/2011 also
remains in question with no update provided by the SLMOM.
Marampa SL has not p aid renew al f ees of the e xploratory
licence sinc e 2017. Due to these ongoing unc ertainties the
value of the M arampa Proje ct w as fully imp aired in the
accounts date d 30 June 2016, and the v alue of these assets
remain fully imp aired. Cyclone Metals Limited are currently
committing minimum e xpenditure on the M arampa Proje ct
(Cape Lambert Resources Limited, 2020).
Cyclone Metals Limited also has an interest in the Kukuna
Project with an e xploratory lic ence c overing 68 km2. The
licence area is 120 km northeast of Freetown and 70 km north
of M arampa. This proje ct is under c are and maintenanc e
(Cape Lambert Resources Limited, 2020).
The project difficulties and then the financial imp airment
on the M arampa Proje ct w ere c ritical moments f or Cy clone
Metals Limited with the share price on the ASX subsequently
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 171

[Page 196]
plummeting. Further difficulties le d to the moment in
October 2020 when the c ompany’s shares w ere delisted from
the ASX, but in August 2021 they w ere reinstate d after
releasing a full f orm prospe ctus (Cy clone M etals Limite d,
2021a). In September 2021 245,000,000 shares w ere issued at
a price of AU$0.005 per share raising AU$1,225,000. These
funds have been directed to the Nickol River Project (Cyclone
Metals Limited, 2021a).
Cyclone Metals Limited has further interests on the African
continent in the Democ ratic Repub lic of Congo with the
Kipushi Cob alt Copper T ailings Proje ct which c omprises a
tailing dam at PE12347 and the Kipushi Proc essing Plant at
mining lic ence PE481 (Kipushi Proje ct) (Cape Lambert
Resources Limited, 2019). The Kipushi Project is 25 km from
the Democ ratic Repub lic of Congo’s se cond largest city
Lubumbashi. Cy clone M etals Limite d engage d in a 50/50
joint v enture with P aragon Mining SARL (P aragon) to
develop the Kipushi Project with La Patience SPRL (Patience).
However this proje ct w as unab le to re ceive proje ct funding
and the joint v enture agre ement with P aragon is no w
terminated (Cape Lambert Resources Limited, 2020).
Table 2 belo w evidenc es the w eak financial position of
Cyclone M etals Limite d with a p articularly poor net e quity
position. The major portion of financial debt is current, which
may be a cause for concern.

172 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 197]
Table 2 : Cy clone M etals Limite d Summary Financial
Highlights (Cape Lambert Resources Limited, 2020)
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 173

[Page 198]
Balance Sheet
Highlights
2019 $ 2020 $

%
Change
Total Current Assets 447,218 544,027
Total Non-Current
Assets 7,204.352 6,019,543
Total Assets 7,651,570 6,563,570 -14%
Total Current Liabilities 7,067,496 6,767,491
Total Non-Current
Liabilities 3,551,627 1,370,504
Total Liabilities 10,619,123 8,137,995 -23%
Net Liabilities (2,967,553) (1,574,425) 47%
Equity (2,967,553) (1,574,425) 47%
Financial Debt
Convertible note
(current) 459,737 206,773
Convertible note
(non-current) – 69,343
Short term loan payable 733,001 2,200,000
Long term loan payable 689,734 –
Profit and Loss
Statement Highlights
Revenue items:
Revenue 278,746 324,910
174 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 199]
Gain on extinguishment
of liability – 787,568
Other income 79,316 2,522,638
Notable expense items:
Finance expenses (132,949) (1,673,840)
Impairment of
investment in associate (718,723) (2,991,912)
Impairment/reversal of
impairment in joint
venture
(3,383,317) 57,849
Share of net
profits/(losses) of
associates accounted for
using the equity method

(919,462)

1,430,813
Share of net losses of
joint venture accounted
for using the equity
method

(1,006,302)
–
Net loss for the year (6,549,163) (1,534,482) 77%
Basic loss per share (cents
per share) (0.64) (0.13)

Cyclone M etals Limite d reporte d another though smaller
financial loss in 2020 compared with the previous year; finance
expenses jumpe d signific antly in 2020. These o verall poor
financial results are reflected in the weak share price.

CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 175

[Page 200]
The F uture S trategy f or
Cyclone Metals Limited
There are c omplex international strategy matters at p lay
here f or Cy clone M etals Limite d, with a range of onshore
Australian projects, strategic shareholdings in other ASX listed
miners, and v ery sensitive negotiations with the Sierra Le one
Government ongoing. The industry c ontext is f ast ev olving
with China’s appetite f or iron ore a potential rich sourc e of
cash flow for mining companies with access to the right mine
tenements in the right c ountries and the resourc es f or
development. Cy clone M etals Limite d financial situation is
precarious. Sage needs a win!
There are a range of strategy issues and challenges f or Sage
to c onsider. Which subsidiary and/or which proje ct should
benefit from the a vailable equity and debt financ e? How can
Cyclone M etals Limite d strengthen its financial position?
Which proje ct will be Cy clone Metals Limite d next success?
Does Cy clone M etals Limite d ha ve the a vailable time and
resources to develop the next successful mining venture? What
is Cy clone M etals Limite d’s interest in helping indigenous
communities and indigenous opportunity? Should Cy clone
Metals Limite d f ocus its attention on e xploration and
development of Australian mine resourc es only? What v alue
are these strategic shareho ldings in other liste d Australian
miners? Should Cy clone M etals Limite d c ontinue to do
business in Sierra Le one? Should Cyclone Metals continue to
do business in the Democratic Republic of Congo? Which are
176 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 201]
the highest priority issues needing attention in the next one to
two years?

References
Aston M artin Lagonda Glob al Ho ldings p lc, 2021. Annual
Report, https://amsc-prodcd.azureedge.net/-/media/
corporate/documents/annual-reports/aston-martinlagonda-2020annual-reportv2.pdf?rev=c521fa0bba7841569b5c22bb45c14daa, viewed 14
December 2021.
Australian Bureau of Statistics, 2021 . Household Impacts of
COVID-19 [si c.] Su rvey, 14 July 2021,
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/people/people-andcommunities/household-impacts-covid-19survey/latestrelease, viewed 9 December 2021.
Australian National Univ ersity, Schoo l of Literature,
Languages & Linguistics, 2017. Meaning a nd Origi n of
Australian W ords a nd Idi oms, 19 October 2017,
https://slll.cass.anu.edu.au/centres/andc/meanings-origins/
all, viewed 8 December 2021.
Australian Stock Ex change, 2021. Cyclone Metals Limited
https://www2.asx.com.au/markets/company/cle, viewed 12
December 2021.
Bogea, F. & Zamith Brito , E.P ., 2018. Determinants of
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 177

[Page 202]
Social M edia Adoption b y Large Comp anies, Journal of
Technology Ma nagement & In novation, 13(1),
http://dx.doi.org/10.4067/S071827242018000100011,
viewed 12 December 2021.
Boaz, J., 2021. M elbourne P asses Buenos Aires ’ W orld
Record for Time Spent in CO VID-19 [sic.] Lockdown, ABC
News, 3 October 2021, https://www.abc.net.au/news/
2021-10-03/melbournelongest-lockdown/100510710, viewed
9 December 2021.
Bongiorno, F., 2015. Ho w Australia Learne d to be
Cosmopolitan, The Gua rdian, 30 October 2015,
https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/australiaculture-blog/2015/oct/30/how-australialearned-to-becosmopolitan, viewed 25 October 2021.
Business News, 2021. Tony Sage ,
https://www.businessnews.com.au/Person/Tony-Sage,
viewed 12 December 2021.
Cape Lambert Resourc es Limite d, 2020. Annual Report ,
https://cyclonemetals.com/wpcontent/uploads/2020/11/
200930-Annual-Report-2020.pdf
Coates, B. & No lan, J., 2020. Ho w to Get both JobKe eper
and JobSe eker, The Conversati on, 22 July 2020,
https://theconversation.com/how-to-get-both-jobkeeperand-jobseeker-143109, viewed 8 December 2021.
Cape Lambert Resourc es Limited, 2021. Presentation and
Fact Sheet , https://cyclonemetals.com/presentation-andfactsheet/, viewed 12 December 2021.
178 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 203]
Cyclone M etals Limite d, 2021a. Quarterly Report , 30
September 2021, https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/
CLE/02444370.pdf, viewed 12 December 2021.
Cyclone M etals Limite d, 2021b . Nickol River Project
Update, https://wcsecure.weblink.com.au/pdf/CLE/
02455118.pdf, viewed 22 November 2021
Dalzell, S., 2020. Australia Locks in Corona virus Vaccine
Deal to Produc e Oxford UniversityAstraZeneca Candidate if
Approved, ABC News , 18 August 2020,
https://www.abc.net.au/news/2020-08-18/australia-locks-inoxford-astrazeneca-coronavirusvaccine-deal/12571454,
viewed 7 December 2021.
Department of Agriculture, W ater and the En vironment,
2019. Wind Chi ll, 6 June 2019,
https://www.antarctica.gov.au/about-antarctica/weatherand-climate/weather/wind-chill/, viewed 14 June 2021.
Eckert, V.H., Loop , P., Berlin, B., Strott, E., W endin, C,
Bissell, K., Openn, F. & Lasko , R. 2017. The Essential Eight
Technologies Bo ard Byte: Artificial Intelligenc e,
PricewaterhouseCoopers Governance Insights Center, December
2017, https://www.pwc.com.au/pdf/essential-8-emergingtechnologiesartificial-intelligence.pdf, viewed 9 De cember
2021.
Fortescue M etals Group Limite d, 2019. Annual Report ,
Perth, W estern Australia, https://www.fmgl.com.au/docs/
default-source/annual-reporting-suite/fy19-annualreport.pdf., viewed 12 December 2021.
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 179

[Page 204]
Gao, M., 2021. CO VID-19 [sic.] and P olitical Polarization
[sic.]: Notes on Australia ’s Chinese Communities, PORTAL
Journal of Multidisciplinary Studies, 17(1/2), pp. 97-103.
Geoscience Australia, 2021. Australia’s Si ze Compa red,
https://www.ga.gov.au/scientifictopics/national-locationinformation/dimensions/australias-size/compared, viewed 21
October 2021.
Hull, C., 2021. Australia ’s Covid [sic.] Risk is F ar Greater
than Blood Clot Vaccine Hysteria, The Canberra Times, 1 May
2021, https://www.canberratimes.com.au/story/7231881/
australias-covidrisk-is-far-greater-than-blood-clot-vaccinehysteria/, viewed 7 December 2021.
Hurley, Z., 2019. Wh y I No Longer Believ e Social M edia
is Coo l..., Social Media + Soci ety, 5(3), https://doi.org/
10.1177%2F2056305119849495, viewed 12 December 2021.
Kenny, M., 2021. Democ racy Sausage: Finger P ointing,
Federalism and Alternative Facts, Australian Studies Institute,
6 July 2021, https://ausi.anu.edu.au/news/latest-democracysausage-episodefinger-pointing-federalism-and-alternativefacts, viewed 7 December 2021.
Ker, P ., 2021. Australian miners brac e f or f allout after
Guinea coup, Australian Financial Review, 9 July 2021, p. 14.
Ker, P. & Spooner, R. 2012. No glory f or Sage after po lice
raids, Sydney Morni ng Her ald, 21 De cember,
https://www.smh.com.au/business/no-glory-for-sage-afterpolice-raids-201212202bpiy.html, viewed 12 December 2021.
Mao, F., 2021. Ho w Rape Allegations ha ve Rocke d
180 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 205]
Australian P olitics, BBC News , 2 M arch 2021,
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-australia-56178290,
viewed 7 December 2021.
McCarthy, A., 2016. Colourful Climate Comparison Maps
Show Surprising Similarities Betw een Countries, Lonely
Planet, 5 July 2016, https://www.lonelyplanet.com/articles/
climate-maps-worldweather-australia, viewed 10 De cember
2021.
Molloy, S., 2018. Australia has nev er be en more divide d
on social and po litical issues. Are w e be coming the US?,
News.com.au, 12 October 2018, https://www.news.com.au/
finance/work/leaders/australia-has-never-been-more-dividedon-socialand-political-issues-are-we-becoming-the-us/newsstory/0891d42f4ce4e23c92aba59769ab60e9, viewed 7
December 2021.
Murtough, G., P earson, K. & W reford, P ., 1998. T rade
Liberalisation and E arnings Distribution in Australia,
Productivity Commission: Industry Commission Staff Research
Paper, F ebruary 1998, https://www.pc.gov.au/research/
supporting/trade-liberalisation/tradelib.pdf, viewed 14 June
2021.
Pandya, J., 2019. The T roubling T rajectory of
Technological Singularity , Forbes, 10 F ebruary 2019,
https://www.forbes.com/sites/cognitiveworld/2019/02/10/
the-troubling-trajectory-oftechnologicalsingularity/?sh=695050526711, viewed 10 December 2021.
Parliament of Australia, n. d., Infosheet 20: The Austr alian
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 181

[Page 206]
System of Govern ment, https://www.aph.gov.au/
About_Parliament/House_of_Representatives/
Powers_practice_and_proc edure/00_-_Infosheet_20__The_Australian_system_of_government, viewed 14 June
2021.
Perrigo, B., 2018. Wh y Does Australia Ke ep Getting Rid
of Its Prime Ministers?, Time, 24 August 2018,
https://time.com/5377190/why-australia-changes-primeministers/, viewed 7 December 2021.
Pierce, J.D, Jones, A.G. & Warren, M.J., 2006. P enetration
Testing Prof essional E thics: A Conc eptual M odel and
Taxonomy, Australasian Jou rnal of Informati on Systems ,
13(2), pp. 192-200.
Reserve Bank of Australia, 2021. Key Economic Indicators
Snapshot, 5 No vember 2021, https://www.rba.gov.au/
snapshots/economy-indicators-snapshot/, viewed 8 December
2021.
Richards, J., 2016. Australia ’s 10 Deserts, Australian
Geographic, 20 April 2016,
https://www.australiangeographic.com.au/topics/scienceenvironment/2016/04/australias-10deserts/, viewed 10
December 2021.
Schroeder, R., 2016. The Glob alization [sic.] of On-Screen
Sociability: Social M edia and T ethered T ogetherness,
International Journal of Communication, 10(1), pp. 5626-43.
Shapiro, J., 2021. Why the Tall Poppy Syndrome Cuts Both
Ways, Australian Fi nancial Revi ew, 29 April 2021 [online]
182 | CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF
MINING, EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS

[Page 207]
https://www.afr.com/markets/equity-markets/tall-poppysyndrome-is-it-real-orimagined-in-australianfinance-20210428-p57n63, viewed 8 December 2021.
Speers, D., 2021. The Cost of Climate and CO VID [sic.],
Q+A (ABC), 12 August 2021, https://www.abc.net.au/
qanda/2021-12-08/13489378, viewed 7 December 2021.
State of the En vironment, 2016. Soil: Salinity &
Acidification, Department of Envi ronment, 2016,
https://soe.environment.gov.au/theme/land/topic/2016/soilsalinity-and-acidification, viewed 10 December 2021.
Weber, L., 2020. During Coronavirus Crisis, Big Company
Display Largess—But f or Ho w Long?, Wall Street Jou rnal,
22 M arch 2020, https://www.wsj.com/articles/duringcoronavirus-crisis-bigcompanies-display-largessbut-for-howlong-11584893891, viewed 7 December 2021.
CYCLONE METALS LIMITED 2022 – THE CHALLENGES OF MINING,
EXPLORATION, FINANCE AND POLITICS | 183

[Page 208]
9.
BANK OF QUEENSLAND:
SUSTAINING A UNIQUE
POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A
CHANGING WORLD
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
184 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 209]
Introduction
Bank of Que ensland Limite d (BOQ) is one of the leading
regional banks in Australia with o ver 160 owner-manager run
branches, A$56.5 billion in customer deposits and A$75.7
billion in gross lo ans and adv ances (Bank of Que ensland,
2021a). The b anking industry in Australia is p articularly
strong with big rivals including Sydney-based Commonwealth
Bank of Australia and W estpac Banking Corporation, and
Melbourne-based National Australia Bank and ANZ Banking
Group Limited having a strong weighting of approximately 25
per c ent on the Australian Stock Ex change (ASX) (Neiron,
2017).
A unique point of differentiation for BOQ is the staff in the
local branches taking time to get to kno w their customers and
identifying the services they need – building partnerships with
customers. BOQ offers a range of products and servic es to its
1.5 million retail and business customers and are note d in the
market for their straight-forward banking products.
There are f our key BOQ brands – BOQ , ME Bank, BOQ
Finance, V irgin M oney Australia, BOQ Business, BOQ
Specialist (Bank of Que ensland, 2021a). BOQ with 163
branches of which 103 are o wner-managed is the retail
banking arm the Group. ME Bank provides a range of banking
products using dire ct channels, mobile b ankers and bro kers
– this business ac quired in July 2021 is branchless. BOQ
Business looks after small and medium size enterprises (SMEs),
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 185

[Page 210]
and c orporate b anking f or industries including property ,
healthcare and retirement, property financ e, hospitality and
leisure. BOQ Business also supports the o wner-manager
branch network. BOQ Finance operates in Australia and New
Zealand spe cialising in leasing so lutions and asset financ e.
BOQ Spe cialist is a pro vider of b anking servic es to
professionals in sele ct industries including v eterinary, medical
and dental; this business w as ac quired from In vestec Bank
(Australia) Limited (Bank of Queensland, 2021a).
BOQ has evidenced an appetite f or merger and ac quisition
(M & A) activity in re cent years and in 2021 deliv ered A$369
million (2020 A$115 million) in statutory profit or A$412
million (2020 A$225 million) in c ash earnings. Cash earnings
per ordinary share w as 74.7 c ents (2020 49.6 c ents) and
dividends per ordinary share 39 c ents (2020 12 c ents) (Bank
of Queensland, 2021a). There are highly competitive industry
conditions in b anking and financ e with regional b anks
including Bendigo & Adelaide Bank, Regional Australia Bank,
Suncorp Bank, Huma Bank and more.
BOQ have had a p leasing set of results in 2021, but f aces
several challenges looking to the future (Bank of Que ensland,
2021b). The “big f our” b anks dominate the Australian
business scene, competition for the business banking and retail
customer is intense, and interest rates are likely to rise
following the Covid-19 pandemic supply chain challenges and
now the war in Ukraine.
186 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 211]
Dramatic Shifts in the
External Environment
The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has been a big political and
economic game changer f or all c ountries with potentially big
geopolitical, commodity and economic impacts. This is on top
of the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic from 2020, 2021 and
now into 2022 with the Omicron variants.
European Union c ountries are seriously c onsidering their
disposition to defence of their o wn borders (Williams, 2022).
Countries including German y, long a c ountry with a lo w
defence budget, has now committed to significant increases in
defence spending.
The in vasion of Ukraine b y Russia has imp acted key
commodity markets with price increases seen across a range of
key raw materials including coal, liquid natural gas (LNG) and
oil. These price increases have not been seen since the oil price
shocks of 1974 (W illiams, 2022). This trend p lus inflationary
pressures already brought on b y Covid-19’s impact on supply
chains, housing, manuf acturing and f ood production c reates
a who le sc enario where there is a risk of a period of higher
inflationary pressure with implications for interest rate settings
by c entral b anks. higher interest rate settings which c an be
a handbrake on e conomic gro wth (Gunnion & Samadder,
2021). S & P Global expects inflation in Australia to be 3.9 per
cent in 2022 – an upgrade of 1.1 per c ent on their previous
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 187

[Page 212]
forecast for this year and 0.75 per cent higher than the Reserve
Bank of Australia (RBA) is forecasting (Wright, 2022). Higher
interest rate settings c an be a handbrake on e conomic growth
(Gunnion & Samadder, 2021). Ac cording to S & P Glob al
Australian GDP is forecast to be 3.6 per cent in 2022 and then
2.6 per cent in 2023 and 2.2 per cent in 2024 (Wright, 2022).
This b ackground is c ontributing to a strong trend of
refinancing of home loans in the Australian mortgage market
in a bid b y householders to get the best interest rate on their
home lo an no w (Gluy as, 2022). Home lo an borro wers are
looking not just at their interest rate – with variable rates as low
as 2.2 per c ent compared with fixed rates no w at 3.5 per c ent
– but also at their relationship with their lender, including if
they have the right lender (Gluyas, 2022).
Millennials and youthful customers expect their experience
with servic e pro viders in industries such as b anking and
finance as w ell as e ducation to match their c onsumer
experience on social me dia (Y eates, 2021). Millennial and
youthful customers c onsumer beha viour is also diff erent to
their more lo yal parents – they are prep ared shop around f or
a better deal and change their b anking and financ e servic e
providers.
Covid-19 has also pushe d along the embrac e of digital
banking; this has put at risk the financial viability of b ank
branches in regional loc ations such as those servic ed by BOQ
(Lynch, 2021).
The technology scene continues to evolve and this is having
188 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 213]
an effect on the b anking and financ e industry. Cyber-attacks
are occurring more fre quently on financial institutions. W ell
designed and imp lemented online p latforms and te chnology
systems can give an edge in relation to the customer experience
as well as internal control and audit (Yeates, 2021).
The “big f our” banks have a strong influenc e on the ASX
and within the Australian and New Zealand e conomies,
however the “four pillars policy” is a f ormal policy preference
of politicians and not regulation (Ellis, 2016). There remains
a viab le ro le f or c apable regional p layers such as BOQ and
Bendigo & Adelaide Bank.
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APR A)
and the Australian Se curities and In vestment Commission
(ASIC) oversee the Australian financial scene, M & A activity
and the ASX. T rade Practices are o verseen by the Australian
Competition and Consumer Commission. The Australian
company tax rate is c omparatively high at 30 per c ent – the
United States is at 21 per cent.
Corporate social responsibility , c arbon emissions and
climate change challenges are an inc reasing priority f or
Australian c orporations (Gluy as, 2020). The M orrison
Government c ommitted Australia to a target of net zero
carbon emissions b y 2050 at the 2021 Glasgo w Summit
(Chambers & Brown, 2022).
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 189

[Page 214]
Banking Industry Conditions
The b anking and financ e industry re cipe f or suc cess is asset
growth in lo ans and deposits, c ost c ontrol, c redit quality ,
better technology and better margins than riv als. Technology
including the customer e xperience with te chnology is
important to p articular market segments (e.g. millennials);
effective and efficient f acilitation of customer servic e b y
employees at the customer interface can also assist cost control,
credit quality and margins.
Suppliers to the b anking and financ e industry include
systems engine ers, softw are dev elopers, real estate v aluers,
brand v aluers, human resourc e c ontractors, management
consultants, providers of accounting services and providers of
legal servic es. The “big f our” due to their sc ale ha ve an
advantage in negotiating ac cess and pricing to the best
providers of these products and/or services.
Different market segments (e.g. institutional b anking,
business b anking, retail) and segments within these market
segments (e.g. mining, agribusiness, property) ha ve differing
buyer power. Generation Z and millennial customers are more
prepared to sc an the marketp lace and change their b ank –
including their home mortgage – c ompared to their p arent’s
generation who w ere more brand lo yal. Younger customers
have bigger e xpectations of their online e xperience compared
with their p arent’s generation and institutions such as
Commonwealth Bank of Australia and National Australia
190 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 215]
Bank are in vesting hea vily in this area to deliv er on this
expectation (Yeates, 2021).
Innovative philosophies on banking and finance are having
an imp act; this is the area of the Australian ne obanks such
as Douugh, Rev olut, V olt and others; the threat of new
innovative entrants is real.
Blockchain te chnology is in the early stages of its
development (Pollock, 2019). Bitcoin is another area to watch
with the Unite d States Go vernment and Australian
Government taking a broad and keen interest in the future of
payments. Senior RBA researchers ha ve observed that c entral
bank digital currencies, stab lecoins and c ryptocurrencies are
all evolving at present and are a high priority f or more po licy
work at the RBA (Richards, 2021). The “buy no w pay later”
(BNPL) trend is another area of the b anking and financ e
industry to w atch; Afterpay has had a real c onsumer impact
and achieved significant stock market valuation.
The banking and finance industry is characterised by strong
rivalry with the “big four” banks alone comprising 25 per cent
of the market c apitalisation of the ASX T op 200 (Neiron,
2017). There are also capable regional players including AMP,
BOQ, Bendigo & Adelaide Bank, Sunc orp Bank and others
servicing the Australian market. Regional p layers like BOQ
cannot hope to match the breadth of branch netw ork of a
“big f our” b ank operating in Australia and New Zealand –
for e xample National Australia Bank has o ver 850 branches
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 191

[Page 216]
allowing significant economies of scale over a smaller regional
bank such as BOQ (National Australia Bank, 2020).
Bank of Queensland Strategic
Situation
BOQ has a 147 y ear history. BOQ state their purpose as: “to
create prosperity f or our customers, shareho lders and pe ople
through their emp athy, integrity and b y making a diff erence”
(Bank of Queensland, 2021a: 12). The emphasis of empathy is
listening to customers, crafting solutions, listening to feedback
and building trust. Integrity requires BOQ to maintain high
standards and take pride in performance. Making a difference
requires bo ldness, risk-taking and an emp hasis on deliv ery
(Bank of Queensland, 2021a).
BOQ articulates fiv e strategic priorities loo king to future
sustainability:
1. An empathetic culture
2. Distinct brands servicing niche market segments
3. Personalised digital banking
4. Simple business with strong delivery capability
5. Strength in financial and risk management (Bank of
Queensland, 2021b)
Chairperson Patrick Allaway has been in his current role since
192 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 217]
October 2019 in an independent non-e xecutive dire ctor
capacity – he p laces much emp hasis on the customer
experience and the importance of the strategic transformation
program in progress at BOQ (Bank of Que ensland, 2020).
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Ge orge Frazis has be en in the
role sinc e September 2019 and in 2021 has le d a signific ant
boost in balance sheet size and earnings (Bank of Que ensland,
2021a).
Improving the customer experience is a big part of the BOQ
story. In the p ast financial y ear BOQ through its subsidiary
Virgin Money Australia enhanced the digital financial services
offering with transaction and sa ving account access. A digital
platform was used for this w ork that will also be use d by the
BOQ retail business, enhancing the digital e xperience for all
BOQ Group customers. BOQ will c ontinue to support
customers imp acted adv ersely b y the Co vid-19 p andemic in
2022 (Bank of Queensland, 2021a).
BOQ like to p lace e xperienced lenders in the heart of the
community to enhanc e c ommunity financial w ellbeing and
outcomes (Bank of Queensland, 2021b).
Sustainability of the business is top priority f or BOQ, with
the deliv ery of stab le returns to shareho lders a key obje ctive
(Bank of Queensland, 2021b). As seen in Table 1 below BOQ
delivered an e xceptional financial result in 2021 of c ash
earnings after tax of A$412 million. BOQ has be en ab le to
turn around the weak performance in cash earnings after tax of
2019 A$320 million and 2020 A$225 million; this c ompares
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 193

[Page 218]
with strong result years in 2017 with cash earnings after tax of
A$378 million and 2018 A$372 million (Bank of Queensland,
2021a).
The ME Bank ac quisition was completed in July 2021 and
was funde d b y an A$1.35 billion c apital raising (Bank of
Queensland, 2021a). There w ere some glitches with the
Australia post mail out to shareho lders for the c apital raising
with some shareho lders missing out on p articipation,
nonetheless the capital raising was an overall success (Bank of
Queensland, 2021a).
A concern for BOQ has be en the deterioration in the c ostto-income ratio o ver the period 2017 to 2020 from 47.3 per
cent to 54.9 per cent. The cost-to-income ratio remains high in
2021 results (Bank of Queensland, 2021a).
Table 1: Bank of Queensland Limited, Financial Highlights
Years 2020 and 2021 (BOQ, 2020, 2021)
194 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 219]
2020
(A$Million)
(A$Million)
+ or –
%Change
Balance Sheet
Highlights
Gross loans and
advances 47,043 75,748
Customer deposits 34,762 56,469
Total assets 56,772 91,432
Total liabilities 52,541 85,235
Total equity 4,231 6,197
Income Statement
Highlights
Net interest income 986 1,128
Non interest income 128 130
Operating expenses (612) (684)
Loan impairment
expense (175) 21

Cash earnings before
income tax 502 574
Cash earnings after
tax 225 412 +83%
Shareholder
Performance
Highlights
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 195

[Page 220]
2020
(A$Million)
(A$Million)
+ or –
%Change
Market capitalisation
at balance date 2,785 6,063
Cash earnings per
share (cents) – basic 49.6 74.7 +51%
Fully franked dividend
per share (cents) 12 39 +225%
Cash Earnings
Ratios
Net interest margin 1.91% 1.92%
Cost-to-income ratio 54.9% 54.4%
Return on average
ordinary equity 5.4% 8.2%
Capital Adequacy
Common Equity Tier
1 ratio 9.80% 9.78%
Total Capital
Adequacy Ratio 12.60% 12.73%

People and culture is an important element of the strategic
transformation in progress at BOQ . BOQ re cognises that
strong leadership, embracing diversity and a quality workforce
are important driv ers of c apability to deliv er on the agre ed
strategy (Bank of Queensland,
196 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 221]
2021a). BOQ has achiev ed 39 per c ent representation of
woman in senior roles (Bank of Queensland, 2021b)
A performance driven culture, reliability, sound w orkplace
conduct and trust are enc ouraged. BOQ emp loyees are held
to ac count f or their achiev ement of w ork p lan go als and
objectives as they c ontribute to the BOQ Group result (Bank
of Queensland, 2021a). The BOQ employee engagement score
in 2021 was 64 per cent (Bank of Queensland, 2021b).
Ensuring BOQ emp loyees are w ell inf ormed and saf e has
been a priority during the Co vid-19 p andemic. This is
especially important f or branch emp loyees who are customer
facing and BOQ ha ve be en ab le to ke ep branches open to
service and support customers. Where possible employees have
been allowed to w ork from home with a return to the offic e
encouraged subject to health directions (Bank of Queensland,
2021a).
Digital transformation is a priority looking to the future for
Australian financial institutions. BOQ takes its responsibilities
to stakeholders and the en vironment seriously and as such is
committed to building a sustainab le business. BOQ gaine d
carbon neutral c ertification in the 2021 financial y ear (Bank
of Queensland, 2021b). Transparency and trust are core values
for BOQ and internal audit proc esses are an important and
rigorous p art of BOQ operations (Bank of Que ensland,
2021a).
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 197

[Page 222]
The Future for Bank of
Queensland
BOQ has be en pursuing a renew al and impro vement of its
board of dire ctors sinc e 2019, se eking to inc rease div ersity,
skills and intelle ctual curiosity. The bo ard has be en re duced
from 11 to eight dire ctors. Mickie Rosen and Deborah Kiers
have been appointed to assist in the areas of ME Bank heritage,
digital transf ormation, the c onsumer e xperience, human
resources and organisation design (Bank of Que ensland,
2021a).
BOQ is eighte en months into a c orporate transformation.
Significant change to the bo ard of dire ctors is c omplete.
Integration of ME Bank ac quired in July 2021 is proc eeding
(Bank of Que ensland, 2021b). There is more to do . Is the
strategic transf ormation f or BOQ w orking? Is the tra jectory
of the strategic transf ormation at BOQ right? What s ynergies
can be achieved through the ME Bank acquisition and merger?
Where is the future sourc e(s) of organic gro wth? When will
BOQ be ready f or another round of merger and ac quisition?
What c ould be the attributes of a suitab le merger and
acquisition target? What more c an BOQ do to strengthen
business sustainability? What can be done to improve the costto-income ratio? Is b alance sheet and c apital management at
BOQ prudent, and right?

198 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 223]
References
Bank of Que ensland, 2020, Annual Report , Brisb ane,
Australia.
Bank of Que ensland Limite d, 2021a, Annual Report ,
Brisbane, Australia.
Bank of Que ensland, 2021b , Sustainability Report ,
Brisbane, Australia.
Chambers, G. & Bro wn, G. 2022, No tax es to hit net zero ,
The Australian, 2 February, p. 1.
Ellis, L. 2016. Booms, busts, c ycles and risk appetite,
Financial Ris k Da y Conferenc e, 18 M arch,
https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2016/spso-2016-03-18.html, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Gluyas, R. 2020. ‘Call to end 10-year war over climate’, The
Weekend Australian, June 27-28, p. 22.
Gluyas, R. 2022, Refinancing rac e driven by rate fears, The
Weekend Australian, March 5-6, p. 23, p. 27.
Gunnion, L. and Samadder, M. 2021, “T ransitory”
inflation? When dizzying demand meets stifled supply, Deloitte
Insights, No vember, https://www2.deloitte.com/xe/en/
insights/economy/spotlight/inflationarypressuresexpectations.html, viewed 10 March 2022.
Lynch, J. 2021. NAB ax es branches in rural e xodus, The
Weekend Australian, 6 February, p.22.
National Australia Bank, 2020, Annual Fi nancial Report ,
Melbourne, Australia.
BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD | 199

[Page 224]
Neiron, A. 2017. Bank levy highlights S&P/ASX 200
concentration risk, V anEck Australia Pty Ltd, 15 M ay,
https://www.vaneck.com.au/bank-levy-highlightsconcentration-risk, downloaded 11 February 2021.
Pollock, D. 2019. The future of banking: Is it all bitcoin and
blockchain? F orbes, 25 July , https://www.forbes.com/sites/
darrynpollock/2019/07/25/the-future-of-banking-is-itallbitcoin-and-blockchain/?sh=3318a7431eb9, downloaded 12
February 2021.
Richards, T . 2021, The future of p ayments:
Cryptocurrencies, stab lecoins or c entral b ank digital
currencies? Address to t he Austr alian Corpor ate T reasury
Association, Reserve Ba nk of Austr alia, 18 No vember,
https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2021/spso-202111-18.html, viewed 11 March 2022.
Williams, P . 2022, Co al and LNG sc ramble sends pric es
soaring, The Weekend Australian, March 5-6, p. 23, p. 27.
Wright, S. 2022, Ukraine war to push up inflation, The Age,
3 March, p. 23.
Yeates, C. 2021. NAB chases y ounger clients in 86 400
buyout, The Age Business, 30 January, p. 2.
200 | BANK OF QUEENSLAND: SUSTAINING A UNIQUE POINT OF
DIFFERENTIATION IN A CHANGING WORLD

[Page 225]
10.
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A
FRESH START IN A
WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY
By Tim O’Shannassy and Justin Pierce
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
Endeavour Group Limite d (Endeavour Group) w as founded
in 2019 as a propose d demerger from the Woolworths Group
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 201

[Page 226]
Limited (Woolworths Group) (2021). Endea vour Group w as
Australian Stock Ex change (ASX) liste d in 2021 and soon
soared to be come p art of the ASX top 50 c ompanies
(Greenblat, 2021), valued at $10.8 billion (Wilmot, 2021).
The demerger of Endea vour Group from W oolworths
Group w as a c omplex transaction and one of the largest
demergers in Australian corporate history (Endeavour Group,
2021). In putting the proposal to shareho lders, Woolworths
Group Chairman, Gordon Cairns, reporte d a p hased
approach to the demerger, beginning with a restructure of
the Woolworths drinks business in 2019. Following a merger
with the ALH Group in the same year (p. 4), Cairns suggested
the demerger w ould inc rease shareho lder v alue “...through a
greater f ocus on each business ’ c ore customer off ering and
growth opportunities.” (W oolworths Group, 2021, p . 3) At
the time of writing, his pre dictions appeare d to ring true as
the Endeavour Group raised to a 52-week high of AUD $7.92,
following its listing pric e of AUD $6.02 (a 31.56% inc rease).
Woolworths, and its main joint v enture p artner, Bruc e
Mathieson Group (BMG), each retained 14.6%, while existing
Woolworths Group shareho lders w ere grante d an e qual
amount of scrip for their existing shares (Woolworths Group,
2021).
The demerger allo wed Woolworths Group to f ocus on its
core business assets in f ood—both c onsumer and business
customers—in stores and online, as w ell as who lesale
operations, everyday needs, peripheral services (e.g., insurance
202 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 227]
and mobile), as w ell as fulfilment operations (W oolworths
Group, 2021). In turn, the Endea vour Group has a more
focused portf olio of businesses in the bev erage industries.
Endeavour Group balances traditional brick and mortar retail
with online retail, and pubs and gamb ling. The tw o main
assets include Dan Murphy’s, and BWS, which are supported
by Pinnacle Dri nks that bo asts more than 700 alc oholic
beverage brands, and more than 300 glob al p artnerships, all
distributed via Dan Murp hy’s, B WS, Shorty’s Liquor, and
Jimmy Brings (Pinnacle Drinks, 2021). In addition, the
portfolio is supporte d b y e ndeavourX, the digital p latforms,
loyalty programs, and fulfilment p latforms, providing a so lid
digital c apability to the Endea vour Group (W oolworths
Group, 2021).
A Moment in Corporate
History of Great Uncertainty
War in Ukraine has unsettle d Europe po litically again,
impacting the price of oil, gas, wheat, nickel, iron ore and other
commodities (Wright, 2022). These po litical and e conomic
events in Europe are c ontributing to glob al post p andemic
inflationary pressure with imp lications f or interest rates,
economic gro wth and unemp loyment if left unche cked
(Wright, 2022).
Against this b ackground the Alb anese Go vernment has
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 203

[Page 228]
been ele cted in M ay 2022 after Liberal Go vernments under
Tony Abbot, M alcolm Turnbull, and Sc ott M orrison from
September 2013 to May 2022. There is much on the national
political agenda with imp lications f or business. These are
significant Australian po litical moments in shaping e conomy
and society f or the future as the nation emerges from the
Covid-19 pandemic.
The importanc e of climate change to the Australian
electorate w as evident with the ele ction of Gre en members
to f our seats in the House of Representativ es, and T eal
independents in long-held Liberal seats Koo yong, Higgins,
Goldstein, Wentworth and more.
Energy market ref orms sinc e 2009 ha ve largely be en a
national f ailure in the ey es of some c ommentators, with
concern rising in the c ommunity at the lack of progress on
renewables as w ell as the lack of reliability of renew ables
(Dunsevic, 2022). There remains ongoing concerns with steep
recent rises in ele ctricity and gas pric es f or industry and
households, with concerns on interruption to supply.
The Australian c orporate sc ene influenced b y the unioncontrolled superannuation funds is inc reasingly taking an
interest in c orporate social responsibility and social imp act,
and this has unsettle d the traditionally pro-business Liberal
Party of Australia. Sustainability, c orporate social
responsibility, reliab le and c ost eff ective energy supp ly, and
technology are important to Australian business.
Post-election 2022 there is much conjecture in the media on
204 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 229]
the impact of inflationary pressures and interest rates on the
Australian property market and economy.
In the OECD inflation was 9.2 per cent for the year to April,
with energy pric es up 32.5 per c ent and f ood prices up 11.5
per c ent—war in Ukraine w as an influenc e here. Australian
inflation is e xpected to be 5.9 per c ent in
December—something not se en in Australia f or some y ears,
well above the target band of 2 to 3 per cent (Dunsevic, 2022).
Australian real wages are in de cline, while on the c ounter side
unemployment is under 4%—the lo west level seen in 50 y ears
(Dunsevic, 2022). Poor w eather, bush fires, w ar in Ukraine
and supp ly chain c onstraints ha ve all c ontributed to fresh
food, c onstruction c osts and petro l pric es inc reasing in
Australia (Greenblat, 2022).
On 3 M ay 2022 the Reserv e Bank of Australia inc reased
the cash rate 25 basis points to 0.35 per c ent with the Reserve
Bank Go vernor Philip Lo we stating, subse quent to the M ay
board meeting, further increases to the cash rate are imminent.
Bank wholesale funding c osts are mo ving higher, resulting in
higher fix ed mortgage rates and v ariable mortgage rates f or
households (Gluy as, 2022). This will imp act c onsumer
confidence and future c onsumer spending with more of the
household budget going to mortgage p ayments and f ewer
household dollars available for liquor and gaming.
There remains conjecture on the economic growth forecasts
for Australia first quarter 2022 yielding gross domestic
product gro wth of 0.8 per c ent; the annual gro wth rate f or
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 205

[Page 230]
the y ear is e xpected in the range 3.8 per c ent with the sum
of commentator and policy maker views being the Australian
economy remains strong (Dunsevic, 2022).
Australian business is increasingly aware of the need to work
for shareho lders and be se en to be ha ving a positiv e social
impact. The importance of the responsib le service of alc ohol
and responsib le gamb ling is important to the operation of
retail liquor stores and hotels (Endea vour Group, 2021). The
Australian c orporate sc ene is also inc reasingly a ware of the
importance of indigenous employment opportunity.
The application of digital technology to business strategy is
increasingly prominent, with online retailing an inc reasingly
contested sp ace that c ontinues to ev olve (Boreham, 2022).
Digital connection, loyalty programs and online platforms are
central to customer c onnection and brand dev elopment
(Endeavour Group , 2021). There is inc reasing use of data
analytics and artificial intelligenc e to inf orm digital strategy
(Temple & Webster, 2021).
There are a range of Acts that apply to stock exchange listed
corporations and liquor and gaming lic ence ho lders in
Australia, with significant consequences for serious breaches.
The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) and
the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC)
oversee the ASX, the financial servic es scene, and merger and
acquisition (M & A) activity . The Australian F oreign
Investment Review Board oversees foreign investment in ASX
listed c ompanies. The Australian Competition and
206 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 231]
Consumer Commission (A CCC) o versees trade practic es.
The Australian c ompany tax rate is c omparatively high at 30
per cent with the Unite d States currently at 21 per c ent. The
Competition and Consumer Act 2010 giv es prote ction to
consumers articulating f air trading and c ompetition law. The
Corporation’s Act 2001 communicates corporation’s law and
director’s duties.
The Industry Environment
Pubs, Bars and Nightclubs
The pubs, bars and night clubs se ctor sells alcoholic beverages
to c onsume either on (e.g., pub lic b ar) or off premises (e.g.,
bottle shop driv e through). These v enues ma y also pro vide
gaming facilities, betting f acilities, live entertainment and/or
food servic e (Whe eler, 2022). Endeavour Group c omprises
9.6 per cent of this industry. Major sources of revenue in this
industry sector are 40.3 per c ent liquor f or consumption on
premises, 18.9 per c ent purchase of liquor f or c onsumption
off-premises, 21.6 per cent wagering and gaming, 14.7 per cent
non-alcoholic bev erages and meals, and 4.5 per c ent other.
There is an e xpected growth in domestic tourism in the short
to medium term which will assist this industry se ctor, helping
to impro ve enterprise and emp loyee numbers. Venues with
gaming f acilities are f acing c ompetition from online betting
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 207

[Page 232]
agencies. There is also a fiv e-year trend to re duce alc ohol
consumption imp acting industry profitability adv ersely, and
this is likely to continue (Wheeler, 2022).
Liquor Retail
The liquor retail industry sells be er, wine, spirits, and readyto-drink (R TD) mix ers in p ackaged bottles and c ans f or
consumption a way from liquor store premises (Endea vour
Group, 2021); sales activity takes p lace through brick-andmortar retail outlets and online (Reeves, 2021).
In the liquor retail industry choic es available to buy ers are
a sele ction of high turno ver, lo w margin p ackaged products
with the option of some high margin premium products (e.g.,
Penfolds Grange, Henschke Hill of Grac e; Australian c raft
beer). Responsible service of alcohol is a priority for operators
in this industry (Endeavour Group, 2021). Demand for pubs
and b ars has de clined o ver the p ast five y ears, and espe cially
in 2020 and 2021 due to CoV iD19 (Re eves, 2021), but is
expected to impro ve in 2021-2022 b y just o ver 10 per c ent
(Wheeler, 2022). Buyers f ace f ew b arriers to switching
between liquor outlets, but are buo yed in Australia b y its
‘drinking culture’ (Munro, Munro & de Wever, 2009).
First tier supp liers are liquor who lesalers, and se cond tier
suppliers are wineries, spirit manuf acturers and brew eries.
Australia has se en a rise of c raft brew eries (Terrill & Leith,
2022) and boutique distilleries (Bo yd, 2019; Herbison, 2014)
208 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 233]
and demand f or their w ares tends to ke ep upstream buy ers
in che ck. The sc ale of operation of Endea vour Group and
Coles Group Limite d (Co les Group) relativ e to riv als giv es
them significant market power (Reeves, 2021). Most workers
in big box formats such as Dan Murphy’s are part-time which
helps to keep labour costs low (Reeves, 2021).
There are many non-alcoholic beverages that are substitutes
for non-alcoholic beverages (e.g., zero alc ohol wine including
Edenvale Shiraz alc ohol removed, zero alc ohol beer including
Great Northern Brewing Comp any), with man y inno vative
producers, but Endea vour Group and others sell these
products as well (Dan Murphy’s, 2022). Consumers can also
choose soft drink options, juic es, dairy , and sports drink
alternatives. As a consequence, threat of substitutes is low.
There are moderate barriers to entry in this industry setting
influenced by the market strength of Endea vour Group and
Coles Group , ensuring it is difficult f or new entrants to get
significant traction and sc ale f or a viab le business model
(Reeves, 2021). These include brand recognition, distribution
network, and w orkforce. The duopo ly in the industry
compete f erociously, signalling to potential entrants. State
government regulation also pro vides c onstraint on new
industry entrants—f or e xample in South Australia the state
government pro hibited the sale of alc ohol in supermarkets,
limiting Aldi’s expansion of this product line (Reeves, 2021).
Market size in this industry is AUD $16 billion emp loying
29,417 (Ibis, 2022). M ajor players include Endeavour Group,
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 209

[Page 234]
Coles Group, Metcash Limited and Aldi Pty Ltd (Aldi) who
account f or more than 75 per c ent of market share in the
period 2021-2022 (Re eves, 2021). Coles Group operate 900
stores under the brands Liquorland, First Choice Liquor, First
Choice Liquor M arket, and V intage Cellars (Co les Group ,
2022). Foreign rivals such as Aldi ha ve limited market share
(Reeves, 2021).
Critical success factors in this industry are location, product
range, price, technology at point of sale, stock c ontrol, loyalty
programs, alliance partnerships, and customer service.
Looking more bro adly online retail itself is an interesting,
contested strategy sp ace where learning f or main p layers
continues after the e xperience of the lockdo wns during the
CoViD19 pandemic, and the relate d increase in e-c ommerce
sales activity. A number of online retailers including Kogan,
Redbubble, Temple & Webster, Booktopia, and BikeExchange
are reporting a pullb ack or c orrection in online sales activity
with a return of a portion of brickand-mortar sales activity
(Boreham, 2022). Temple & Webster is the largest Australian
ASX listed achieving valuation above AUD $600 million and
is now setting out to take on Bunnings in the online AUD $16
billion home impro vement market (Boreham, 2022). There
are pure online liquor retailers including Nake d W ines
Australia and BoozeBud, who have gained some traction in the
marketplace during the pandemic (Reeves, 2021).
210 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 235]
Endeavour Group Strategic
Situation
Endeavour Group’s strategy c entres on thre e pillars:
“Knowing our customer; Innovating to meet customer needs;
and Being one team, living our purpose and v alues”
(Endeavour Group , 2021, p . 18). The “Inno vating to me et
customer ne eds” pillar is p articularly interesting, as it allo ws
Endeavour Group to seize on the f ollowing gro wth
opportunities:
• growing digital engagement
• enhancing existing venue and store footprint
• expansion to better serve communities • expanding range
and reach, and,
• enhancing asset efficiency.
The Endeavour Group celebrates its purpose, ‘creating a more
sociable future together’ (Endea vour Group, 2021, p . 1). Its
establishment coincided with, and allowed it to seize on six key
consumer trends (Woolworths Group, 2021, p. 31):
1. rapid growth in digital channels for sales and
engagement
2. discovery, leading to customer’s increased demand for
premium products
3. rising expectations on ease of doing business
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 211

[Page 236]
4. changing role of physical stores to engage customers,
rather than for transactions
5. increasing demand for total wellbeing, and,
6. increasing awareness of sustainability outcomes with
respect to climate action.
Some of these w ere driv en b y customer beha vioural change,
following go vernment-enforced lockdo wns (Saul, Sc ott,
Crabb, M ajumdar, Coghlan & Hellard, 2020), whereas the
rising customer e xpectations trend is be cause of rising servic e
levels generally (Lesonsky , 2019). Despite these trends,
Endeavour Group enjo ys 40% market share of the Australian
liquor market and 9% of the Australian hotels market
(Woolworths Group , 2021), through its 1962 outlets ac ross
Australia and New Zealand. Endeavour Group puts its best
foot f orward in its digital str ategy, supporte d b y its
endeavourX division. In March 2022, it was reported to invest
AUD $35 million in new digital c apability, much of it in
recruitment of digital, data, user e xperience, and business
analyst positions (W eber, 2022). Indeed, it bo asts an
‘integrated’ digital offering to support its flagship brands, Dan
Murphy’s and BWS.
Endeavour Group is proud of its entrepreneurial heritage,
a culture of inno vation, and positiv e workplace environment
(Endeavour Group, 2022). Endea vour Group is c onscious of
its ro le ac ross the c ommunity and as a business netw ork
partner and seeks to act responsib ly, contribute to sustainable
212 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 237]
outcomes, and make a positiv e c ontribution to its industry
(Endeavour Group, 2021).
Some of the digital initiativ es the Endeavour Group boasts
include the ‘personalisation engine’ b y which it pro vides
superior customer services via digital channels (Weber, 2022).
Hogan (2020) described the number plate recognition system,
that allo ws Endea vour Group to streamline click-and-c ollect
operations—particularly important f or f acilitating efficiency
during the go vernment-enforced lockdo wn period where
social distancing kept customers out of stores (Da vis, 2021).
A further e xample of Endea vour Group’s digital pro wess
includes the ro ll out of ele ctronic shelf labels and near field
communication (NFC) te chnology, which allo ws customers
to ac cess product inf ormation (e.g., inf ormation on the
winery, vintage, or grape v ariety), and f acilitates greater
analytics f or product p lacement (Weber, 2022). Endeavour
Group a verage 11 million monthly w eb site and app visits,
with 86 per c ent monthly gro wth in activ e users of Dan
Murphy’s and B WS apps (Endea vour Group, 2021). Finally,
to support the transition, Endea vour Group shares IT
infrastructure assets with its former parent (Endeavour Group,
2021, p. 15).
As part of the portf olio, Dan Murp hy’s stores are typic ally
1,000m2 with around 4,500 products and off ers customers
30-minute click-and-collect services. It’s smaller sibling, BWS
stores, are typic ally 175m2 with 1,500 products and include
formats including driv e-through and integration to
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 213

[Page 238]
Woolworths stores. The hotel business operates
approximately 330 hotels around Australia in sev eral formats
including b ars, ac commodation, c afés, w agering, and pub lic
bars (‘pubs’). A vast network of suppliers is brought together
by Endea vour Group’s relationship with Primary Con nect,
Woolworths’ supp ly chain pro vider (W oolworths Group ,
2021, pp. 32-36).
Endeavour Group summary financial data from their
annual report is below in Table 1:
Table 1: Endea vour Group Summary Financial Data
(Endeavour Group Limited, 2021)
214 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 239]
Summary Financial Data ($Millions) FY2021 FY2020
Profit and Loss Highlights
Revenue ($M) 11,595 4,141
Cost of sales (7,928) (3,033)
Gross profit 3,667 1,108
Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 899 40
Finance costs (247) (91)
Income tax expense (207) (13)
Net profit after tax (NPAT) 445 (64)
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per
share
24.8
cents
(8.8)
cents
Balance Sheet Highlights
Inventory 1,213 1,269
Total Current Assets 1,771 1,993
Total Assets 10,764 10,795
Total Current Liabilities 3,812 2,886
Total Liabilities 7,376 7,408
Total Equity ($M) 3,388 3,387
Cash Flow Highlights
Net cash provided by operating activities 1,114 560
Net cash (used in) investing activities (318) (169)
Net cash (used in) financing activities (734) (247)
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 215

[Page 240]
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 437 375

Endeavour Group has 28,000 team members including
16,100 in retail, 11,300 in hotels and 800 in support offic e
roles (Endeavour Group, 2021). Its size allowed it to redeploy
hotel staff members that w ould otherwise ha ve be en
furloughed to its retail operations, as well as furnish click-andcollect demand (W oolworths Group, 2021). Team members
must be traine d in responsib le servic e of alc ohol, and
responsible gambling, and be specifically trained to refuse sale
of alcohol to minors (Endea vour Group, 2021). This can be
particularly difficult in the online channel, but Endea vour
Group has be en re cognised as a leader in this emerging
challenging area (Endeavour Group, 2021).
Endeavour Group’s understanding of c onsumer behaviour
is built on its lo yalty program, which bo asts 5.1 million My
Dan’s members, and is linke d in with W oolworths’ 12.8
million Everyday Rewards program. Through its endeavourX
personalisation capability, it uses customer insights to improve
and expand web-based and digital sales channels (Endea vour
Group, 2021).
216 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 241]
Strategy Challenges for
Endeavour Group Looking to
the Future
Endeavour Group has a strong property portf olio, is an
interesting pubs p lay, a strong liquor retail business and an
interesting digital strategy play. Endeavour Group has capable
and experienced leaders at bo ard level and the upper e chelons
of management. Is the strategy c orrect? What does financial
ratio analysis rev eal about the financial risk profile and
financial efficienc y of Endea vour Group? Is the p hysical
footprint of liquor retailers and pubs optimal? How should
this f ootprint ev olve in future? How c an the influenc e of
endeavourX, and digital and lo yalty platforms be maximised?
How c an Endea vour Group engage positiv ely with
communities ac ross Australia with f avourable social imp act,
including indigenous opportunity?

References
Boreham, T . 2022, ‘Co vid normal ’ test in store f or online
retail, Herald Sun, 7 May, p. 83.
Boyd, T ., 2019, ‘ A Spirite d Dream: The Rise of Gin’,
Australian Fi nancial Revi ew, 8 M arch 2019, [online]
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 217

[Page 242]
https://www.afr.com/politics/a-spirited-dream-the-rise-ofgin20190308-h1c50j, accessed 9 June 2022.
Coles Group Limite d, 2022, About us,
https://www.colesgroup.com.au/aboutus/?page=about-us,
viewed 7 June 2022.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2001, Corporations A ct,
Canberra ACT.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2010, Competition a nd
Consumer Act, Canberra, ACT
Dan Murp hy’s, 2022, No alc ohol, no w orries! There’s
plenty of delicious non-alc drinks to sip ,
https://www.danmurphys.com.au/discover/non-alcoholic,
viewed 7 June 2022
Davis, A., 2021, Gladys Berejiklian cuts her daily press
conference just as NSW Co vid [sic.] c ases peak—that is a
dereliction of duty , The Gua rdian, 10 September 2021
[online] https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/
sep/10/gladys-berejiklian-cutsher-nsw-daily-press-conferencejust-as-covid-cases-peak-that-is-a-dereliction-of-duty, accessed
24 October 2021.
Dusevic, T. 2022, Charming Chalmers morphs into a truthtelling Grim Jim, The W eekend Austr alian, 4-5 June, pp .
20-21.
Endeavour Group Limite d, 2021, Annual Report
[Statutory Report] [online] https://assets.websitefiles.com/
60c93d64f6858abab8091444/
218 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 243]
614935ed5c4790b8229b463c_Annual%20Rep ort.pdf,
accessed 31 May 2022.
Gluyas, R. 2022, Rate hike sp arks mortgage surge, The
Weekend Australian, 28-29 May, p. 25 and p. 39.
Greenblat, E., 2021, ‘Shareholders Vote to Split Giant’, The
Herald Sun, 19 June 2021.
Herbison, M., 2014, ‘The Spirits of Australia P art 1: The
Rise of our Boutique World-Beaters’, Marketing, 22 October
2014 [online] https://www.marketingmag.com.au/techdata/
the-spirits-of-australia-part-1-the-rise-of-our-boutique-worldbeaters/, accessed 9 June 2022.
Hogan, R., 2020, ‘T alking Tech with Endea vourX’, Inside
Retail, 18 De cember 2020 [online]
https://insideretail.com.au/business/talking-tech-with-danmurphys-202012, viewed 31 May 2022.
Lesonsky, R., 2019, ‘Customer Servic e Expe ctations are
Rising – Is Your Business Keeping Up?’, Forbes: Small Business
Strategy, 10 April 2019 [online] https://www.forbes.com/
sites/allbusiness/2019/04/10/customerserviceexpectations/?sh=7bc1631214e5, viewed 1 June 2022.
Munro, G., Munro , G., & de W ever, J., 2009, ‘Culture
Clash: Alc ohol M arketing and Pub lic Health Aspirations ’,
Drug & Alcohol Review, 27(2), pp. 204-11.
Pinnacle Drinks, 2021, Pinnacle Dri nks [website]
https://pinnacledrinks.com.au/, viewed 31 May 2022.
Reeves, M., 2021, Liquor retailing in Australia, IBISWorld,
https://my-ibisworldcom.ezproxy.lib.rmit.edu.au/au/en/
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 219

[Page 244]
industry/g4123/competitive-landscape#basis-ofcompetition,
November, viewed 7 June 2022.
Saul, A., Sc ott, N. Crabb , B.S., M ajumdar, S.S., Coghlan,
B & Hellard, M.E., 2020, ‘Imp act of V ictoria’s Stage 3
Lockdown on CoViD-19 Case Numbers’, Medical Journal of
Australia, 213(11), pp.494-6.
Temple & W ebster Group Limite d, 2021, Annual Report ,
viewed 17 February 2022.
Terrill, D. & Leith, R., 2022, ‘Craft Beer in Australia: Going
from Strength to Strength’, Deloitte: The Agribusiness Bulletin,
[online] https://www2.deloitte.com/au/en/pages/consumerbusiness/articles/craft-beeraustralia-going-from-strength-tostrength.html, accessed 9 June 2022.
Weber, K., 2022, ‘Endeavour Group injects $35 million into
digital arm: Ramps up its endea vourX Ambitions’, IT News,
9 M arch 2022 [online] https://www.itnews.com.au/news/
endeavour-group-injects-35-million-into-digitalarm-577079,
viewed 31 May 202.
Wheeler, K., 2022, Pubs, Bars and Nightclubs in Australia,
IBISWorld, https://my-ibisworldcom.ezproxy.lib.rmit.edu.au/
au/en/industry/h4520/about, February, viewed 7 June 2022.
Wilmot, B., 2021, ‘Endea vour Group Lists with $10.8 bn
Valuation’, The Herald Sun, 25 June 2021.
Woolworths Group Limite d, 2021, ‘Demerger of
Endeavour Group – Demerger Booklet’,
[online] https://assets.websitefiles.com/
60c93d64f6858abab8091444/
220 | ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY

[Page 245]
60c95f683ed7a406a426f57b_Demerger%20of
%20Endeavour%20Group%20-%20Demerger%20Booklet.pdf
, viewed 31 May 2022.
Wright, S. 2022, Ukraine war to push up inflation, The Age,
3 March, p. 23.
ENDEAVOUR GROUP: A FRESH START IN A WORLD OF
UNCERTAINTY | 221

[Page 246]
11.
AV JENNINGS:
STRATEGY IN AN
UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT
By Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
Introduction
Australian Stock Ex change (ASX) liste d A V Jennings w as
established in Caulfield, Victoria in 1932 b y Sir Albert V ictor
222 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 247]
Jennings and has a rich 89 y ear history . The current Head
Office of this iconic Australian brand name is in the inner city
Melbourne suburb of Ha wthorn and the business is no w a
majority o wned subsidiary of SC Glob al Dev elopments Pte
Ltd, the luxury real estate developer based in Singapore.
AV Jennings have a clearly defined business model, a quality
product pipeline in Australia and New Zealand, and ha ve just
appointed a new Chief Executive Officer Mr Phil Kearns. Prior
to this appointment Kearns had been a non-executive director
of AV Jennings f or two years and has had a relationship with
the business for 10 years. Kearns is a former Australian Rugby
Union World Champion and v ery well connected across the
Australian c ommunity in sport and business (Australian
Property Journal, 2021).
Jim Chalmers the newly appointe d T reasurer in the
Albanese Labor Go vernment c alls the inflation spike in the
Australian e conomy and the drop in the real w ages of
Australians a ‘oncein-a-generation challenge’ (Wright & Clun,
2022, p. 1). Inflation is currently at a 21 y ear high of 6.1 per
cent in Australia and is f orecast to lift to 7.75 per c ent for the
three month period to the end of De cember; this is ha ving
major imp lications f or interest rates on home lo ans f or
borrowers with the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) currently
aggressively lifting rates (W right & Clun, 2022). The Reserv e
Bank of New Zealand is also aggressiv ely lifting interest rates,
and this is imp acting business and c onsumer c onfidence
(Craymer, 2022). The c ause of the inflation spike is mainly
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 223

[Page 248]
global f actors such as the w ar in Ukraine and supp ly chain
bottlenecks in China. These dramatic e conomic and po litical
development ha ve imp lications f or the building and land
development industry in Australia and New Zealand.
AV Jennings are c onscious of ongoing shifts in customer
tastes and pref erences, so change and inno vation are strategic
priorities looking to the future, as is business gro wth. There
is a challenging future agenda f or AV Jennings in some of the
most difficult economic conditions seen for a generation.
External Environment
Challenges
The Covid-19 pandemic has seen a shift in the c ommunity to
a preference for workplace flexibility including the choic e to
be able to work from home some or all da ys of the w eek. The
roll out of Covid-19 vaccines and better medical treatments are
assisting the community to return to something more normal
(AV Jennings, 2021).
There have be en two big social trends that ha ve impacted
house design in Australia sinc e the 1950s. T raditionally post
– World War 2 (WW2) Australians liv ed in English homes
with two or three bedrooms, a good living room and a separate
kitchen. In the 1970s the return of w oman to w ork adde d
much needed income to the Australian househo ld, but it also
created ne ed f or change in the floor p lan of the Australian
224 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 249]
home. The traditional sep arate kitchen and lounge room
became outdated and was replaced by the large kitchen f amily
room with island bench from which parents could cook, have a
conversation with children or guests, or watch television (Salt,
2021). Another change to home design c ame with the arriv al
of migrants from Mediterranean countries (e.g., Italy, Greece)
who adapted quickly to our M editerranean style climate with
the enjoyment of an indoor-outdoor lif estyle. The adaptation
to home design le d b y these migrants w as the alfresc o (Salt,
2021).
Population gro wth is an important driv er of the home
building and land dev elopment industry . Australia ’s
population w as 25,766,605 at the end of 2021 with annual
growth of 0.5 per c ent (Australian Institute of Health and
Welfare, 2022). P opulation gro wth in Australia has be en
impacted b y the Co vid-19 p andemic, with gro wth slo wing.
Australia’s population is projected to be 29.8 million people in
2033; the major population centres will continue to be Greater
Melbourne, Greater Sy dney, and Greater Brisb ane inclusiv e
of the region from Go ld Co ast to Noosa Shire. Auckland ’s
population is e xpected to reach 2,000,000 pe ople in the early
2030s from the current 1,700,000 (StatsNZ, 2021).
The European Union e conomies are being imp acted
adversely b y the reality of the w ar in Ukraine and ensuing
political and energy market turmoil. The risk of Russia cutting
off gas supp lies is real and c ould push the European Union
into re cession (Dulaney & F airless, 2022). There remains
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 225

[Page 250]
tension between China, Taiwan and the United States over the
political situation in the west Pacific.
The weaker Euro against the Unite d States (US) do llar also
in p art reflects the strength of the US currenc y, which no w
has more buying po wer c ompared with o verseas currencies
than it has had in the p ast two decades (Dulaney & F airless,
2022). The c entral authorities in the US ha ve indicated they
are f avourably dispose d to a strong US do llar as it helps to
ease inflationary pressures while they are raising interest rates
(Dulaney & Fairless, 2022). The European Central Bank has
been slo wer to inc rease interest rates c ompared with the US
Federal Reserv e. This w eek the Unite d States (US) F ederal
Reserve increased interest rates a further 0.75 per cent (Wright
& Clun, 2022). The RBA has the c ash rate at 1.35 per c ent
after the July Bo ard M eeting with further inc reases likely in
coming months (RBA, 2022). The Reserv e Bank of New
Zealand has also been increasing its cash rate in recent months
and is currently at 2.5 per cent since its July Meeting (Craymer,
2022).
On b alance the c oming 12 to 36 month period will be
difficult for mortgage ho lders in Australia and New Zealand
whose v ariable home lo an rep ayments will be imp acted b y
these cash rate increases if and when fully passed on by lenders.
Business and c onsumer c onfidence is also no w f alling
(Craymer, 2022).
Organizations in the building and land dev elopment sector
need to use the internet and social me dia f or eff ective
226 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 251]
integrated marketing communication, and computer software
solutions to c oordinate and c ontrol resourc es. Computing
capability is an important driv er of suc cess for organizations
managing significant assets disperse d over a v ast geographical
area such as Australia and New Zealand. Softw are as a servic e
(SaaS) enterprises are ab le to customise so lutions to customer
requirements pro viding eas y to use integrate d softw are that
can be readily supporte d. This allo ws a business such as A V
Jennings or an industry riv al to focus on running its business
and the software provider to implement, support and run the
software with regular research and dev elopment updates
(TechnologyOne, 2019).
The ASX and the Australian financial servic es sc ene is
overseen b y the Australian Se curities and In vestment
Commission (ASIC) and the Australian Prudential
Regulation Authority (APR A). The Australian Competition
and Consumer Commission o versees (A CCC) loo ks o ver
trade practices in the marketplace. The tax rate f or companies
in Australia is c omparatively high at 30 per c ent, c ompared
with the United States at 21 per c ent. The Corporations Act
details director’s duties in the Australian legal jurisdiction. The
Commonwealth Work Health and Saf ety Act 2011 inf orms
occupational health and safety compliance requirements.
Building and land dev elopment industry players can have a
significant impact on the natural en vironment including land
topography, vegetation, biodiversity, water supply, water run-
off, potential f or hazardous chemic als emission, risk to
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 227

[Page 252]
indigenous heritage and artef acts, and more. As a
consequence, industry players need to be conscious of a range
of en vironmental challenges including c ompliance with
statutory re quirements, including en vironmental
considerations in p lanning and dev elopment proje cts, and
delivering en vironmentally responsib le c ommunities and
homes (AV Jennings, 2021).
The Building Industry
The building industry is an important se ctor of the e conomy.
Several builders (e.g., Probuild, Langf ord Jones Homes) ha ve
collapsed in 2022 due to higher c osts, fix ed pric e c ontracts
with slim margins, and length y delays due to the CO VID-19
pandemic c aused b y f actors including labour shortages and
supply chain challenges. Sev eral of these builders in difficulty
in 2022 w ere supporte d financially b y go vernment in 2020
and 2021 at the height of the p andemic, resulting in f ewer
insolvencies in those y ears. There appears to be a c orrection
in progress with the uptick in inso lvencies in re cent months
(Clun, 2022).
The Australian Go vernment JobKe eper program has
assisted man y Australian citizens to ke ep their emp loyment
during the w orst moments of the Co vid-19 p andemic (AV
Jennings, 2021).
Buyers are confronted by an industry with major challenges,
228 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 253]
with large builders such as Metricon showing signs of financial
stress and Snowdon Developments going into administration
in July with 550 unc ompleted homes (Clun, 2022). The
impact on customers in this situation c an be financially
devastating, including new home c ost inc reases potentially
well beyond the original fix ed price contract if a new builder
has to be contracted to finish the uncomplete job. This reduces
the bargaining power of buyers significantly.
Industry analysts note that there is a market shift in progress
to townhouse and high-density ap artment construction, and
small b lock detache d housing (Kelly , 2022). Demand f or
lowdensity housing is in decline due to the influence of higher
interest rates and withdra wal of go vernment support (Kelly ,
2022).
CPA Australia currently argue that home builders who get
into an inso lvency situation due to e xternal factors should be
allowed to ke ep trading to a void a domino eff ect throughout
the industry (Clun, 2022).
The HomeBuilder scheme and lo w interest rates pro vided
a signific ant stimulus to land pric es o ver the p ast fiv e y ears
(Kelly, 2022). Land f or high-density dev elopment close to
transport is more expensive than land for low-density housing
developments (Kelly , 2022). It is e xpected that demand f or
low-density residential housing will de cline in the short term
due to higher interest rates and withdrawal of go vernment
support (Kelly, 2022).
Supply of skille d labour (e.g., c arpentry, brick la yer, Hebel
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 229

[Page 254]
installer, plumber) has been tight but is easing, though the cost
of that skille d labour is e xpected to contribute to inflationary
pressure in the short to medium term.
The building industry is an entrepreneurial se ctor of the
economy. The building industry includes man y small
operators with new builders emerging and practicing builders
going into administration and inso lvency – so there is ease of
entry and the incidence of exit.
The modern home is c entral to lif estyle, and this is w ell
known to be important to Australian society (Salt, 2021).
Substitutes for a home are limite d and include a c aravan or a
tent.
It is a difficult y ear for the building industry . Ease of entry
and e xit, and the range of product from prestige to budget
makes the building industry a highly c ompetitive market, but
it diff ers signific antly from a perf ectly c ompetitive market.
Reasons for this include this diff erentiation of product from
prestige to budget, unequal information access for buyers and
sellers, lead time for planning and building, access to credit and
interest rates.
There are 78 real estate and property c ompanies in this
sector of the ASX including househo ld names such as
Goodman Group, Stockland, Mirvac Group, Sunland Group,
Servcorp and more (ASX, 2022), and there is intense riv alry.
Recent research rev eals that industry p layers are staging the
release of land in master-p lanned communities to obtain the
230 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 255]
best price results and avoid a supply led decline in prices. This
helps developers preserve their profits (Fitzgerald, 2022).
Reflecting challenging industry c onditions ma jor builders
Probuild, Langf ord Jones Homes, Sno wdon Dev elopments
and now Caydon Property Group have failed in recent months
(Johanson, 2022). A c onsistent message in relation to these
failures from builders is the imp act of c onstruction c ost
inflation, supply chain challenges, difficulties getting access to
skilled labour, builder inso lvencies, higher interest rates and
a de cline in house pric e sentiment (Jo hanson, 2022; Kelly ,
2022). This is making trading c onditions tough for all players
in the building industry, with builder insolvencies particularly
painful for industry p layers including trades (e.g. ele ctrician,
plumber) not being p aid 100 c ents in the do llar in some
scenarios. It is the pref erence of the Housing Industry
Association (HIA) that builders receive government aid before
they are rendere d inso lvent b y these difficult industry
conditions (Clun, 2022).
AV Jennings Strategy
Situation
AV Jennings Strategy
Covid-19 p andemic has be en a challenging period f or the
board and executive of AV Jennings with changes in identified
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 231

[Page 256]
risks re quiring shifts in strategy . The greatest risk w as to the
health and saf ety of emp loyees, suppliers, customers, and the
wider c ommunity as w ell as the financial w ell-being of the
business during the Covid-19 pandemic. AV Jennings was able
to ensure business continuity to enable customers to purchase
and build homes during this difficult period (Cheong, 2021).
In the most difficult da ys of the p andemic there w as a real
identifiable risk that potential customers w ould defer a home
transaction. This had the potential to c reate some difficulty
for AV Jennings maintaining their pipeline of home proje cts,
including an ac ceptable lev el of presales, imp acting business
continuity. The Australian Go vernment HomeBuilder
initiative pro vided stimulus to the customer c ommunity to
pursue a home transaction (Cheong, 2021).
The executive and bo ard are monitoring market trends to
ensure they are a ware of shifts in buy er preferences; they like
to se e a spread of proje cts and c ontract sales ac ross the
Melbourne, Sy dney, Brisb ane and Auckland markets (Bleb y,
2022). This w as assiste d by a shift to a national structure at
AV Jennings which helped to reduce overheads by $1.5 million
in 2021 and assiste d operational de cisions, efficienc y and
flexibility (AV Jennings, 2021).
AV Jennings are reno wned f or a strong housing and
community focus articulating their market position as:
...one of the most re cognised and truste d names in
quality, aff ordable housing...our reputation has be en
built on...meticulous design and c onnectivity f or our
232 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 257]
customers, whilst operating in a socially and
environmentally responsib le manner. Our f ocus is to
create a lasting, positiv e legacy...(AV Jennings, 2021, p .
18).
AV Jennings appre ciate there are en vironmental risks in
residential dev elopment activities, henc e the f ocus on
managing risk and minimising impact in this sensitive area. AV
Jennings Governance Matters
The Chairman of the bo ard of directors is Simon Che ong;
there are eight non-e xecutive dire ctors and one e xecutive
director. AV Jennings risk management responsibility rests
with the bo ard of dire ctors, o verseeing a who le risk
management system including periodic review (A V Jennings,
2021).
AV Jennings take En vironmental, Sustainability and
Governance (ESG) seriously and their ambition is to deliv er a
high level of customer service, be sensitive to the environment,
and a quality p artner to a range of stakeho lders including
suppliers, business p artners and c ommunities (AV Jennings,
2021).
Cultural heritage management is respe ctfully undertaken
when heritage items or sites are identified in consultation with
local indigenous c ommunities. A Re conciliation Action Plan
is in dev elopment to guide engagement with indigenous
peoples in Australia and New Zealand (AV Jennings, 2021).
AV Jennings Functional-Level
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 233

[Page 258]
Situation
A strong presales position was an important starting point for
the AV Jennings 2021 financial y ear (Bleby, 2020); the 2021
results sho w rev enue gro wth of 18.6 per c ent to $311.1
million, with strong c ontract signings perf ormance (A V
Jennings, 2021). In a sign of strong marketing and sales
performance there was an increase in contract signings to 953
in 2021 (2020 697 c ontracts signe d) w orth $327.7 million
compared with the 2020 and $241,2 million in c ontract
signings. These numbers w ere assisted by revenue achieved at
Ara Hills, Auckland and GEM Ap artments, Waterline Place,
Williamstown, Victoria (Summers, 2021).
AV Jennings has 12,180 lots under c ontrol including land
under option, with 1,537 lots w ork in progress (AV Jennings,
2021).
AV Jennings pub lished its first M odern Slavery Statement
in 2021 and has dev eloped a c ompany policy in this area; the
goal is to ensure there is no infiltration of supp ly chains with
slavery (AJ Jennings, 2021). A Code of Conduct f or suppliers
is in development (AV Jennings, 2021).
There is a strong pipeline of proje cts across Victoria, New
South W ales, Que ensland, W estern Australia and New
Zealand (Bleby, 2022). A snapshot of the largest projects with
more than 500 lots with the e xception of the largest project in
Western Australia at Kardinya are provided in Table 1 below:
234 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 259]
Table 1: AV Jennings Major Project Pipeline (AV Jennings,
Annual Report, 2021, p. 9)
State Community
Remaining
Number of
Lots
Maturity
New South
Wales
Rosella Rise,
Warnervale 518 Post 2025
Queensland
Riverton, Jimboomba
Caboolture,
Rocksberg
1,066
3,500
Post 2025
Post 2025
Victoria Lyndarum North,
Wallert JV 1,682 Post 2025
South
Australia Eyre, Penfield 1,238 Post 2025
Western
Australia The Heights, Kardinya 62 2023
New Zealand Aar Hills, Orewa 605 Post 2025
In 2019 AV Jennings c ommitted to a fiv e-year contract with
TechnologyOne to rebuild their major enterprise applications,
with imp lementation e xpected October 2020. The f ocus of
this digital strategy proje ct has be en to giv e the AV Jennings
a simp le, unifie d, te chnology that c an be use d b y a mobile
workforce disperse d around Australian states and New
Zealand. A V Jennings ha ve struggle d in re cent y ears with
several legac y softw are app lications c ausing unne cessary
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 235

[Page 260]
complexity. The softw are app lication dev eloped assists
management of documents, c apital, financials, and assets
(TechnologyOne, 2019).
AV Jennings embrac e div ersity and inclusion in their
workforce, with 45.5 per cent of the workforce female. On the
senior executive team female representation is 22 per c ent and
on the board of directors 12.5 per cent. Employee engagement
in the annual surv ey w as strong at 4.2 out of 5; emp loyees
described the workplace culture as positive, friendly, respectful
and fun (AV Jennings, 2021). Wellness resources are a vailable
to employees through the A VJ Wellness Hub, and in 2020 a
mental health support program for employees was established.
Flexible work arrangements, a mentoring program, and p aid
parental lea ve is a vailable. Regular W orkplace Health and
Safety inspections are undertaken on w ork sites, with 96 per
cent c ompliance on built f orm inspe ctions (A V Jennings,
2021).
AV Jennings has a strong b alance she et position, with the
directors relieved to ha ve se en off the w orst moments of the
Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021 (Che ong, 2021). The
directors target a gearing range of 15 to 35 per c ent with
current gearing reporte d at 20.1 per c ent with net debt
currently $125.4 million (A V Jennings, 2021). Summary
financial data is pro vided in T able 2 belo w sho wing a bro ad
improvement in key financial indic ators in 2021 including a
4.1 per cent improvement in net assets:

236 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 261]
Table 2: A V Jennings Summary Financial Data (A V
Jennings Annual Report, 2021)
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 237

[Page 262]
$’000 2020 2021 %
Change
Income Statement Highlights
Total revenue 262,354 311,090 18.6
Gross margins 22.8% 22.6%
Net profit before tax 13,158 26,676
Net profit after tax 9,041 18,716
Basic earnings per share (cents per
share) 2.23 4.62 107.2
Balance Sheet Highlights
Total current assets 218,850 215,119
Total non-current assets 436,327 410,149
Total assets 655,177 625,268
Total current liabilities 24,343 41,936
Total non-current liabilities 237,704 174,223
Total liabilities 262,047 216,159 (17.5)
Net assets 393,130 409,109 4.1
Cash Flow Statement
Highlights
Receipts from customers
(including GST) 275,993 331,084 19.5
Net cash from operating activities 10,635 63,969
Net cash (used in)/from investing
activities 119 (196)
238 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 263]
Net cash used in financing
activities (23,284) (56,343)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
and cash equivalents (12,530) 7,430
Cash and cash equivalents end of
year 5,703 13,099 129.7
The Future for AV Jennings
Following the appointment of Phil Learns as CEO , c an AV
Jennings ‘supercharge’ gro wth? Or should A V Jennings
maintain a steady, incremental rate of sales gro wth? How can
AV Jennings impro ve their ESG perf ormance? What
functional improvements can AV Jennings make to make the
business more eff ective? Can A V Jennings impro ve div ersity
and inclusion on the bo ard? In what Australian states, cities
and loc ations c an A V Jennings impro ve its landb ank and
contract signings? Is A V Jennings rate of c ontract signing
sufficient? Is A V Jennings c ommitment to the indigenous
community, indigenous culture, and indigenous emp loyment
opportunity sufficient, and fast enough?

References
AV Jennings, 2021, Annual Report, viewed 16 July 2022.
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 239

[Page 264]
Australian Institute of Health and W elfare, 2022, Profile
of Austr alia’s popu lation, 7 July , https://www.aihw.gov.au/
reports/australias-health/profile-of-australias-population,
viewed 28 July 2022.
Australian Property Journal, 2021, Summers handb all
leadership to Kearns, No vember 1,
https://www.australianpropertyjournal.com.au/2021/11/01/
summers-handball-leadershipto-kearns/, viewed 28 July 2022.
Australian Stock Ex change, 2022, ASX real estate and
property c ompanies, https://www.listcorp.com/asx/sectors/
real-estate, viewed 28 July 2022.
Bleby, M. 2020, A V Jennings: housing ‘in a shallo w
recovery’, Australian Financial Review, 27 February, p. 32.
Bleby, M. 2022, A V Jennings strong, Australian Financial
Review, 18 February, p. 33.
Cheong, S. 2021, Chairman’s Report, AV Jennings Annual
Report, p. 5.
Clun, R. 2022, Building se ctor faces a raft of inso lvencies,
The Age, 26 July, p. 14.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2001, Corporations A ct,
Canberra ACT.
Commonwealth of Australia, 2010, Competition a nd
Consumer Act, Canberra, A CT Commonwealth of Australia,
2011, Work, Health and Safety Act, Canberra, ACT.
Craymer, L. 2022, RBNZ lists rates 50 bps, sticks to p lan
for more rises, Reuters, July 13, https://www.reuters.com/
240 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 265]
markets/rates-bonds/rbnz-raises-cash-rate-by-50-basispoints2022-07-13/, viewed 28 July 2022.
Dulaney, C. & Fairless, T. 2022, Euro sliding as energy crisis
looms, The Weekend Australian, July 16-17, p. 29.
Fitzgerald, K. 2022, Housing supp ly held b ack b y ‘go ld
tape’, The Age, 28 July,
Kelly, A. 2022, Land dev elopment and subdivision in
Australia, IBISWorld, July , https://myibisworldcom.ezproxy.lib.rmit.edu.au/au/en/industry/e3211/industryoutlook, viewed 26 July 2022.
Johanson, S. 2022, Major developer in liquidation, The Age,
27 July, p. 4.
Reserve Bank of Australia, 2022, Statement b y Phillip
Lowe, Governor: Monetary policy decision, [Media Release],
5 July , https://www.rba.gov.au/media-releases/2022/
mr-2220.html
Salt, B. 2021, M egatrends are shaping the demand f or
housing, The Australian, 14 October, p. 10.
StatsNZ, 2021, Auckland population ma y hit 2 million in
early 2030s, 31 M arch, https://www.stats.govt.nz/news/
auckland-population-may-hit-2-million-in-early-2030s,
viewed 28 July 2022.
Summers, P. 2021, Chief Ex ecutive Officer’s Report, A V
Jennings Annual Report, pp. 10-11.
TechnologyOne, 2019, AV Jen nings signs wit h
TechnologyOne to bui ld out its digita l transformation [Media
Release], 8 October, https://technologyonecorp.com/
AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT | 241

[Page 266]
resources/media-releases/digital-transformation-inpropertydevelopment.
Wright, S. & Clun, R. 2022, Wages to lag inflation for years
as cost of living lifts, The Age, 29 July, p. 1.
242 | AV JENNINGS: STRATEGY IN AN UNCERTAIN BUSINESS
ENVIRONMENT

[Page 267]
12.
BENDIGO AND
ADELAIDE BANK:
ENVIRONMENTAL,
SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC
SUSTAINABILITY
By Justin Pierce and Tim O’Shannassy
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works w e ha ve made all reasonab le eff orts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.

BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 243

[Page 268]
Introduction
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limite d (Australian Stock
Exchange Code: BEN) is Australia ’s fifth largest b ank
(Duncan, 2022), with a strategic f ocus on c ommunity
engagement and customer service. During Full Year (FY) 2021
BEN increased its market share, customer b ase, total lending,
and deposits—all while maintaining its c ommitment to
community and deliv ering on en vironmental, social and
governance (ESG) measures where is has pro ven leadership
(Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limite d, 2021). During FY2021,
BEN c onfirmed its c ommitment to a multiy ear proje ct to
simplify operations, e xpand c apabilities, and better
communicate the purpose of the firm. The bro ader forward
economic forecast for the Australian economy presents several
opportunities for BEN. Although the previously low interest
rates placed pressure on margins, higher demand f or lending
is e xpected as Australia emerges from the p andemic (Janda,
2022).
Considering future challenges, BEN remains steadfast in its
commitment to purpose, v alues, strategy, and shareho lders.
Customers will c ontinue to be at the c entre of strategic
decisions (Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limited, 2021).
244 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 269]
The External Environment
The p assing of Her M ajesty Que en Elizabeth II on 8th
September 2022, ende d the longest reign b y a monarch in
British history . The Unite d Kingdom and Common wealth
of Nations (Common wealth) members no w face a period of
renewal as His M ajesty King Charles III assumes his new
monarchical duties (Hart, 2022). The Albanese government
set the agenda for stronger reconciliation with Australia’s first
peoples, earning public approval and respect for early progress
in this area (Grattan, 2022).
The Ukrainian w ar has rev erberated around the w orld,
causing inc reased c ommodity pric es, gas shortages, and
inflationary pressures (The World Bank, 2022). In Australia,
unemployment is at an historic al lo w rate, putting further
pressure on inflation. At the same time, wages have stagnated,
igniting c alls from labour unions f or significant inc reases in
takehome pay (Jericho, 2022).
Australians enjoy their bank ‘bashing’, part of its egalitarian
culture that aims to level out social power structures (Denniss,
2020). It c omes with the notion of the “f air go” (Bo lton,
2003), and the great Australian dream of owning a home, for
which most Australians require property mortgages (Robson,
2019).
Technological adv ancement w as at its greatest during
1920-1970s, but ma y ha ve slo wed in re cent times (Clanc y,
2021; No lan, 2021). Technologies of note in servic e-based
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 245

[Page 270]
industries include artificial intelligenc e, including machine
learning, and natural language proc essing. For physical goods
industries, robotics and automation c ontinue to deliv er
efficiencies (Rathman, 2022; Goodman, 2022).
Australia’s huge land mass as the largest island nation is
home to 26 million pe ople (ABS, 2022), most living around
the c oastal areas. Climactic c onditions v ary ac ross the
continent, and betw een one y ear and the ne xt (Bureau of
Meteorology, 2022). Air quality has be en imp acted b y
bushfires, e xtreme w eather ev ents, and w ater management
continues to be a delic ate issue (Dep artment of Climate
Change, Energy, the Environment, and Water, 2021).
In Australia, the Corporations Act of 2001 estab lishes the
regulations app licable to c orporations, including the
responsibilities of directors. The Competition and Consumer
Act of 2010 estab lishes c ompetition and f air dealing la w, as
well as c onsumer rights. Australia ’s corporate tax rate is 30%,
compared to the United States’ rate of 21%.
The Industry Environment
This b anking industry is highly c ompetitive, c ontributing
significantly to Australia ’s gross domestic product (GDP).
Experience from the boom and bust c ycles of Australian
economic history and ensuing difficulties in the b anking and
finance industry has le d c entral po licymakers to pursue the
246 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 271]
“four pillars ” po licy with some suc cess in re cent de cades
(Ryan, 2018; Ellis 2016). Millennials se ek out inno vative
solutions, and demonstrate lo wer brand lo yalty, and this has
provided an opportunity f or buy no w p ay later (BNPL)
providers, and neobanks, which have proven highly appealing
to this demographic (Yeates, 2021).
Embracing these shifts in the market, b anks ha ve be en
acquiring start-ups, with the most re cent e xample being
NAB’s purchase of 86 400. Interest in bitc oin is currently
at an all-time high, which presents a challenge f or the “big
four” trading banks and ASIC (Eyers, 2021), while blockchain
technology is still in early stages of dev elopment (P ollock,
2019).
The banking market is segmented into retail, corporate, and
institutional customers. Each sector has specific technological
requirements, particularly in online and real-time proc essing
(Yeates 2021). Each se ctor has a range of choic e of b anking
and finance provider, and there is little differentiation between
these market p layers. On the supp lier side, IT infrastructure
providers, and prof essional servic es firms (i. e., c onsultancies,
auditors, etc.) make up the bulk of v alue chain p artners.
Unlike some forward sectors, these tend to be large, established
businesses with bargaining power to boot!
Establishing a new b ank re quires signific ant c apital
investment, registration with the regulator, APR A, licensing,
and a disruptiv e point of diff erentiation to entic e customers
over.
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 247

[Page 272]
Alternatives to retail b anking include c redit unions, and
mutual funds. For institutional clients, in vestment banking,
brokers, and equity markets provide viable alternatives.
Company Analysis
BEN’s vision is to be “ Australia’s bank of choice for customers,
employees, partners, and shareholders”, and declares its purpose
is “to f eed into prosperity , not off it” (Bendigo & Adelaide
Bank Limite d, 2021, p . 16). To achiev e these ambitious
outcomes, BEN aims to reduce complexity, invest in capability,
and focus on customers, growth, and transformation (Bendigo
& Adelaide Bank Limited, 2021, p. 16).
BEN’s operations f ocus on the pro vision of a bro ad range
of banking and financial servic es (Bendigo & Adelaide Bank
Limited, 2021, p . 11). Following the re cent Ro yal
Commission, BEN has impro ved che cks and b alances in all
operations, emp hasising identity che cks, and monitoring f or
money laundering. The service aspect of BEN highlights the
importance of proc ess and proc edure management in its
operations. Call centre operations, online processing, and data
retention typify operational priorities.
BEN is re quired to understand its market, position itself
among competitors, and maintain a steady flow of new—while
retaining existing—customers. The marketing function uses a
community partner image and reputation to differentiate from
248 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 273]
its competitors. A separate ‘community banking’ arm allo ws
rural communities to register, operate, and share in the profits
it generates (Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limited, 2021).
BEN c ommits to emp loyee dev elopment, empo werment,
and w ellbeing. Branch staff are traine d in customer servic e,
with shifts timed to allow for child drop-offs, and other family
commitments. Succession planning is a key c onsideration at
the corporate level, and of note is the ma jority female board
(Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limited, 2021).
Technology challenges include the near c onstant barrage of
cyber-attacks, p hishing attempts, and sc ams aff ecting
Australian customers. Maintaining a netw ork of automatic
teller machines (ATMs), data centres, and corporate networks
that are resilient, f ault-tolerant, and se cure is a key challenge
for the technology team.
Leading corporate reputation indic es p lace BEN ahead of
its key c ompetitors. When c ombined with a human-c entric
strategy, strong lev els of trust, and positiv e net promoter
scores, BEN’s inno vation in vestment is 29.8 points greater
than the a verage of the ma jor b anks. This enab les BEN to
become even more nimb le in responding to client ne eds, and
to expand its market share (Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limited,
2021).
BEN reported a statutory net profit of $524 million f or the
year ending 30 June 2021, an inc rease of 172%. There w ere
increases in residential, agriculture, and c ommercial lending.
The Common E quity Tier 1 Capital Ratio inc reased b y 32
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 249

[Page 274]
basis points to 9.57 perc ent, showing a well-managed balance
sheet and e xcellent risk management, while enab ling
continuing lending gro wth and future in vestments in
transformation. In addition, BEN de clared a fully franke d
final dividend of 26.5 cents per share, bringing the total payout
for the y ear to 50 c ents per share. The f ollowing T able 1
provides a high-level financial insight into BEN.
Table 1: Bendigo & A delaide Ba nk Li mited Fi nancial
Highlights FY2020-21 (AUD$ millions unless otherwise stated)
250 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 275]
2020
(AUD$
millio
ns)
(AUD$
millio
ns)
+/-
%
Chan
ge
Balance Sheet Highlights
Net loans and receivables 64,980.4 71,920.6
Goodwill and other intangible
assets 1,564.6 1,549.4
Total Assets 76,008.9 86,577.2 +13.9%
Deposits 64,182.6 74,355.6
Notes payable 35,03.5 3,597.7
Total Liabilities 70,210.7 80,223.7
Total Equity 5,798.2 6,353.5 +9.6

Financial Position – Other
Highlights
Risk weighted assets 38,215.2 40,469.3
Additional tier 1 capital ratio
(%) 2.34% 2.04%
Common tier 1 capital ratio
(%) 9.25% 9.57%
Tier 2 capital ratio (%) 2.02% 2.20%
Income Statement
Highlights
Net interest income 1,333.8 1,422.5 6.7%
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 251

[Page 276]
Other revenue 300.6 382.9
Operating expenses (1,179.8) (1,033.7)
Credit expenses (168.5) (18.0)
Profit before tax 286.1 753.7
Income tax expense (93.3) (229.7)
Profit after tax 192.8 524.0 +171.8%
Key Trading Indicators
Number of employees
(persons) 4,776 4,483
Assets per employee 15.9 19.3
Shareholder performance
highlights
Basic earnings per share (cents) 38.1 98.1
Fully franked dividend per
share (cents) 35.5 50
Strategy Challenge
Central to the strategy of BEN is its ongoing c ommitment to
ESG, keeping in mind its purpose o ver the long-term. What
are the o verall challenges of the e xternal environment? How
can BEN best be pro active about its future and shape its
industry, p articularly in the f ace of a w eakening property
market and changes in monetary po licy? What does financial
252 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 277]
ratio analysis tell y ou about BEN’s perf ormance and risk
profile? Ho w will BEN sustain gro wth and deliv er profit
growth in the short, me dium and the long term giv en the
current business? How can BEN better manage the inc reased
competition resulting from mergers and ac quisitions, changes
in customer beha viour, and entry of new p articipants? How
will BEN manage current and future strategic risks? What
major proje cts should ha ve priority f or BEN in the me dium
term? How will BEN remuneration arrangements imp act the
organisation’s gro wth and transf ormation strategy? Is BEN
doing enough on reconciliation and indigenous opportunity?

References
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), 2022, ‘P opulation’,
[online] https://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs%40.nsf/
Web%2BPages/Population%2BClock?
opendocument=&ref=HPKI, last update d 11 September
2022, viewed 11 September 2022.
Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Limited, 2021, Annual Financial
Report, [online] https://www.bendigoadelaide.com.au/
globalassets/documents/bendigoadelaide/inve storcentre/
results-and-reporting/annual-reviews/annual-financialreport-2021.pdf, Bendigo, Australia, view ed 11 September
2022.
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 253

[Page 278]
Bolton, T., 2003, ‘Land of the Fair Go—An Exploration of
Australian Identity’, AQ Quarterly, 75(2), pp. 16-22.
Bureau of M eterology (BoM), 2022, ‘ Australian Climate
Influences’, [online] http://www.bom.gov.au/climate/about/
australian-climate-influences.shtml, viewed 11 September
2022.
Clancy, M., 2021, ‘Is T echnological Progress Slo wing?’,
[online] https://mattsclancy.substack.com/p/is-technologicalprogress-slowing, last updated 25 November 2021, viewed 11
September 2022.
Denniss, R., 2020, ‘ Australian Ministers Lo ve to Bash the
Banks. They Should Byp ass Them Instead ’, The Gua rdian
[online] https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/
2020/apr/30/the-government-likes-tobash-the-banksrhetorically-but-that-wont-dent-their-profits-or-helpcustomers, last updated 30 April 2020, view ed 11 September
2022.
Department of Climate Change, Energy, the Environment,
and W ater (DCCEEW), 2021, ‘State of the En vironment’,
[online] https://soe.dcceew.gov.au/, viewed 11 September
2011.
Duncan, A., 2022, ‘What are the T op 10 Biggest Banks
in Australia?’, Canstar, [online] https://www.canstar.com.au/
home-loans/biggest-banks-australia/, last update d 29 April
2022, viewed 11 September 2022.
Ellis, L. 2016. Booms, busts, c ycles and risk appetite,
Financial Ris k Da y Conferenc e, 18 M arch,
254 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 279]
https://www.rba.gov.au/speeches/2016/spso-2016-03-18.html, downloaded 9 September 2022.
Eyers, J. 2021. ASIC open to bitcoin-linked ETF listing, The
Australian Financial Review, 13-14 February, p. 8.
Goodman, P.S., 2022, ‘The Supp ly Chain Bro ke. Robots
are Supposed to Help Fix It’, The New Y ork Times, [online]
https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/07/business/
robotsautomation-supply-chain.html, last update d 7
September 2022, viewed 11 September 2022.
Grattan, M., 2022, ‘ Albanese Releases Draft W ording f or
Indigenous “V oice to P arliament” Ref erendum’, The
Conversation [online https://theconversation.com/
albanesereleases-draft-wording-for-indigenous-voice-toparliament-referendum-187933, last update d 29 July 2022,
viewed 11 September 2022.
Hart, R., 2022, ‘Elizabeth II W asn’t Just the W orld’s
Longest-reigning Queen—Here are the Other Big Records She
Broke’, Forbes [online] https://www.forbes.com/sites/
roberthart/2022/09/09/elizabeth-ii-wasnt-just-theworldslongest-reigning-queen-here-are-the-other-big-recordsshebroke/?sh=a03466e35ee3, last updated 9 September 2022,
viewed 11 September 2022.
Janda, M., 2022, ‘Interest Rate Rises Push Househo ld
Finance to ward Pandemic Lo ws, Confidence Plunges ’, ABC
News [online] https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-0712/
households-brace-for-the-toughest-times-since-start-ofBENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 255

[Page 280]
pandemic/101230078, last update d 12 July 2022, view ed 11
September 2022.
Jericho, G., 2022, ‘W ages Growth Should be Skyrocketing
on the b ack of Australia ’s low unemployment. Is the s ystem
broken?’, The Gua rdian [online
https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/jul/21/
wages-growth-should-beskyrocketing-on-the-back-ofaustralias-low-unemployment-is-the-system-broken, last
updated 21 July 2022, viewed 11 September 2022.
Nolan, A., 2021, ‘ Artificial Intelligence and the Future of
Science’, OECD Po licy Observatory [online] https://oecd.ai/
en/wonk/ai-future-of-science, last updated 25 October 2021,
viewed 11 September 2022.
Pollock, D. 2019. The future of banking: Is it all bitcoin and
blockchain? F orbes, 9 September, https:// www.forbes.com/
sites/darrynpollock/2019/07/25/the-future-of-banking-isitall- bitc oin-and-blockchain/?sh=3318a7431eb9,
downloaded 9 September 2022.
Rathman, C., 2022, ‘Contractors ha ve M ore and M ore
Options f or Construction Robotics, and E quipment
Automation’, For Constru ction Pros , [online]
https://www.forconstructionpros.com/constructiontechnology/machine-gradecontrol-gps-laser-other/article/
22327690/new-options-for-construction-roboticsandautomation, last update d 23 August 2022, view ed 11
September 2022.
Robson, C., 2019, ‘E volution of the Great Australian
256 | BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY

[Page 281]
Dream’, Sydney Morni ng Her ald [online]
https://www.smh.com.au/money/borrowing/evolution-ofthe-great-australiandream-20190418-p51fbc.html, last
updated 21 April 2021, viewed 11 September 2022.
Ryan, P. 2018. ‘Four pillars’ banking policy is ‘ad hoc’ and
‘redundant’, Productivity Commission w arns, ABC News, 9
September , https://www.abc.net.au/news/2018-02-07/
productivity-commission-warns-four-pillars-banking-policyadhoc/
9402742#:%7E:text=The%20four%20pillars%20policy%20wa
s,maintain%20a%20c ompetitive%20banking%20market ,
downloaded 9 September 2022.
The W orld Bank, 2022, ‘Russian In vasion to Shrink
Ukraine E conomy b y 45 P ercent this Y ear’, 10 April 2022
[press release online] https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/
press-release/2022/04/10/russian-invasion-toshrink-ukraineeconomy-by-45-percent-this-year, viewed 11 September 2022.
Yeates, C. 2021. NAB chases y ounger clients in 86 400
buyout, The Age Business, 30 January, p. 2.
BENDIGO AND ADELAIDE BANK: ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY | 257

[Page 282]
13.
TAIWAN
SEMICONDUCTOR
MANUFACTURING
COMPANY LIMITED: THE
EYES OF THE WORLD
ARE WATCHING
By Tim O’Shannassy and Chris Hope
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.
258 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 283]
Introduction
Taiwan Semic onductor M anufacturing Comp any Limite d
(TSM) operates in a difficult and unc ertain business
environment in the semiconductor industry, and is the world’s
largest business in this fast growing sector (Forbes, 2023; TSM,
2021). As a c onsequence TSM’s strategy and suc cess, or
failure, is important to governments and corporations around
the world. Semiconductors have major household, academic,
industrial and military use.
There ha ve be en signific ant glob al po litical, and trade
tensions betw een ma jor e conomies sinc e 2018, p lus the
Covid-19 p andemic (TSM, 2021). Co vid-19 alone with its
impact on health institution o verload and lockdo wns in
particular legal jurisdictions (e.g., China) has le d to glob al
supply chain disruption – and this has imp acted the semiconductor industry.
The threat of w ar f or Taiwan with China is real (P owerRiggs, 2023). Russia is at w ar with Ukraine. There c ontinues
to be the risk of the p lacement of tariff b arriers, non-tariff
barriers, and trade sanctions against p articular c ountries,
corporations and/or individuals. These types of trade b arriers
have the potential to ha ve a strong imp act on the
semiconductor industry, adversely imp acting TSM ability to
produce product and/or provide services to customers (TSM,
2021).
TSM enjo yed another y ear of strong rev enue and profit
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 259

[Page 284]
growth, but there remain a v ariety of challenges and
uncertainties. What is their optimal strategy f ocus f or the
future?
Business Environment
Challenges in the
Semiconductor Industry
Currently, the po litical situation is v ery delic ate f or glob al
business. China is pushing f or the European Union (EU) and
other regions to a void official dealings with T aiwan, and the
United States has made sev eral plays to assist TSM, including
partnering to dev elop a US$12 billion Unite d States chip
fabrication plant in the Unite d States (Arizona) and b anning
technology access to Chinese companies (Power-Riggs, 2023).
After the in vasion of Ukraine b y Russia, man y United States
and EU policy makers remain concerned about the reliance of
the world on Taiwan and namely TSM to produc e advanced
chips (The Economist, 2023).
A recent study in the US State Department predicted that a
blockade on Taiwan by China would have a significant adverse
impact on ac cess to semic onductors and w orld Gross
Domestic Product (P ower-Riggs, 2023). This has le d to a
complex political situation where TSM currently ho ld a great
deal of industrial and po litical po wer f or Taiwan, with the
United States motiv ated to prote ct T aiwanese interests in
260 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 285]
relation to China because of this (Crawford, Dillard, Fouquet
& Reynolds, 2021).
A semiconductor chip shortage has be en c aused in re cent
years by a series of glob al events which include ra w material
shortages, trade wars and the COVID-19 pandemic which led
to a drop in demand. W ith difficult e conomic c onditions
including a rising c ost of living ac ross the globe and slo wer
world e conomic gro wth (International M onetary Fund,
2023), companies are also no w forced to b alance the po litical
element of their purchasing de cisions and who to align with
(China or the United States) (Power-Riggs, 2023). There is big
money in the semic onductor industry, with the EU, Unite d
States and China thro wing around billions of do llars to
improve their position in the industry and a void a reliance on
TSM. Tokyo is attempting to lure TSM into Jap an also f or
research and dev elopment (R & D) with US$1 billion p lus
the potential for further financial support for a manufacturing
facility. China itself is also spending big, with US$1.4 trillion
earmarked in 2025 alone f or spending on chip dev elopment
(Crawford et al., 2021). The US re cently introduc ed the
“Chips and Scienc e Act” which as a result means more
capability and R&D for US companies who are developing the
microchips. This is expected to be worth several billion dollars
to the industry in the US (Powers-Riggs, 2023).
Taiwan has begun to inc rease in vestment in its e ducation
sector, with a f ocus on re cruiting students to the
semiconductor industry and inc reasing the number of
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 261

[Page 286]
specialised schools that f ocus on the industry (Wu, 2022). A
well e ducated w orkforce is important in the semic onductor
industry. The c omplex ge opolitical situation with China
means that the T aiwanese population are dire ctly affected by
the e conomic and industry status of the semic onductor
industry, and how the great power rivalry of the United States
and China plays out (Power-Riggs, 2023). It is a delicate time.
Taiwan produc es around tw o thirds of the w orld’s
semiconductors (65%) and approximately 90% of the advanced
chips. By comparison, China produces just over 5% while the
US produces approximately 10% (Crawford et al., 2021).
Protecting intellectual property is c rucial for success in this
industry. In particular, it is important that industry players are
prepared for any cybersecurity breaches or industrial espionage
which c ould undermine the integrity of their intelle ctual
property (Reuters, 2021). There is discussion among
lawmakers in Taiwan to establish legislation to prev ent China
from poaching Taiwanese technology talent and offering them
jobs in the Chinese semiconductor industry (Reuters, 2021).
Environmental c onsiderations are v ery import in the
semiconductor industry , and an important f ocus f or
governments and c orporations; sustainability ma y aff ect
future in vestment flows from go vernments, superannuation
funds, or other corporate entities.
Samsung, Intel Inc., Mic ron and TSM are locke d in b attle
for dominanc e of the chip industry , and this riv alry is only
set to develop further as the po litical landscape is volatile and
262 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 287]
rapidly shifting, and te chnology in this se ctor adv ances
(Investing.com, 2023; Ting-F ang & Li, 2022). F or instanc e
Huawei has made sev eral re cent in vestments to impro ve its
chip capabilities to produce both chips at scale and to develop
more advanced chips, after the United States moved to reduce
their ac cess to Unite d States te chnology. In 2021, Hua wei
invested in just under half of domestic China chip te chnology
companies which doub led their 2020 in vestment.
Approximately 70% of these Hua wei in vestments w ere in
relation to semic onductor-related supp ly (Ting-F ang & Li,
2022).
There are high b arriers to entry f or the semic onductor
industry due to the challenging te chnology required to make
the chips (TSM, 2021). One such entry b arrier is the large
amount of in vestment re quired to be in the industry which
creates a high financial hurdle for new players. Another hurdle
is mastery of manufacturing capability at scale, something that
the Chinese government and Chinese enterprise have not been
able to achiev e (P ower-Riggs, 2023). T aiwan c ompanies
including TSM dominate the adv anced chips industry no w
with more than 90% market share, and 60% market share in
semiconductors (Power-Riggs, 2023). The po litical situation
can dramatically shift this analysis (TSM, 2020).
There are no evident substitutes f or semic onductors, but
materials that could replace silicon include indium gallium and
black phosphorus.
Should Europe or others rely on a large industry p layer like
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 263

[Page 288]
TSM giv en the ge opolitical situation? Ho w much adv anced
microchip making c an Europe really do , or ho w much does
it really ne ed? These are some of the c onsiderations to make
when thinking about the threat of substitutes. Could
quantum c omputing make an imp act on the future of
chipmaking? (Deloitte, 2023).
Volumes are f alling in the semic onductor market with
demand w eakness evident. Ho wever, man y semic onductor
companies including Intel and TSM ha ve long-term contracts
with their supp liers and are unlikely to w ant to damage a
relationship b y breaking a c ommercial agre ement (The
Economist, 2023).
During the CO VID-19 p andemic, the demand f or c ars
dropped which meant c ar makers did not w ant to e xtend
contracts with semiconductor companies. However, there was
an inc reased demand in other se ctors which resulte d in a
reallocation of semic onductor manuf acturing c apacity to
these contracts. There is now a shortfall of semiconductors in
the car industry due to these circumstances.
There is a f ocus on div ersification in all p arts of the
semiconductor supply chain, with trends leaning to traditional
supply chain strongho lds in Asia shifting to North Americ a
and Europe (Power-Riggs, 2023). China will seek to influence
this trend to its adv antage in the short and me dium term,
however rep licating T aiwan’s manuf acturing c apability will
not be eas y. When c onsidering this and ho w it imp acts
suppliers to the industry, it is important to consider the impact
264 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 289]
of how partnerships and alignment with either the European
Union, China or United States play a part (Deloitte, 2023).
Critical suc cess f actors re quired f or surviv al in the
semiconductor industry include manuf acturing c apacity,
alliance p artnerships, research and dev elopment, te chnology,
design, intelle ctual property , p atents, trademarks, product
quality, servic e quality , po litical lobb ying, distribution
channels, emp loyee training and dev elopment, emp loyee
mobility, and advertising.
Taiwan Semi-Conductors
Strategy Situation
Taiwan Semi-Conductors
Strategy and Governance
TSM’s mission is “to be the truste d technology and c apacity
provider of the glob al logic IC industry f or y ears to c ome”
delivering industry leading and adv anced semic onductor
products (TSM, 2021:2).
TSM’s stated vision “is to be the most adv anced and largest
technology and foundry services provider to fabless companies
and IDMs, and in p artnership with them, to f orge a powerful
competitive f orce in the semic onductor industry” (TSM,
2021: 2).
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 265

[Page 290]
TSM c ore v alues include integrity , customer trust,
commitment, and innovation (TSM, 2021).
In the previous financial y ear the key elements of the TSM
differentiation strategy was:
• Improving quality and productivity from TSM
fabrication facilities
• Generate greater wafer output from existing capacity
• Create greater production capacity, strengthening capital
expenditure
• Improve customer service
• Improve research and development infrastructure
(TSM, 2021).
TSM revenue is earned through customers using smartphones,
internet of things (IoT), c omputing and digital c onsumer
electronics (TSM, 2020).
TSM undertakes long-term demand f orecasting f or its
operations and has determine d the ne ed to inc rease the
capacity of its operations T aiwan, Nanjing in China, Arizona
in the United States and Kumamoto in Japan (TSM, 2021).
During the Covid-19 pandemic TSM took strong measures
to prote ct emp loyees whilst ensuring the c ontinuation of
fabrication facilities to support customers. This action helpe d
TSM to achieve a strong profit outcome (TSM, 2020).
TSM is c ommitted to en vironment-social-governance
(ESG) perf ormance with gre en manuf acturing, an inclusiv e
266 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 291]
work en vironment, supp ly chain responsibility and loo king
after the underprivileged priorities (TSM, 2021).
The TSM board comprises 10 directors including Taiwan’s
Director, National Dev elopment Fund. The chairman is Mr
Mark Liu. Mr C.C. Wie is Vice Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer (CEO). Nine dire ctors are male and there is one
independent f emale dire ctor. Fiv e dire ctors are T aiwanese,
four from the Unite d States and one from the Unite d
Kingdom (TSM, 2021).
Taiwan Semi-Conductors
Functional-Level Situation
The bo ard and e xecutive believ e TSM is about to enter a
period of high gro wth given the gro wth industry c onditions
with 5G, high performance computing and applications likely
to push high demand for computing power (TSM, 2020). The
TSM differentiation market strategy has be en a clear winner
for them (TSM, 2021).
The customer profile f or TSM product and servic es is
dynamic, so TSM need to be agile. A further risk management
issue is the c oncentration of sales with the current largest
customers currently at 71% of net rev enue (2020 74%; 2019
71%) (TSM, 2020; TSM, 2021). In the current financial y ear
the tw o largest customers of TSM ac count f or 36% of net
revenue. The nature of the ele ctronics industry is that
customer c oncentration is a characteristic, with only a small
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 267

[Page 292]
number of firms w orldwide with c apacity to produc e mobile
devices, applications and softw are with re quired capability at
scale (TSM, 2021).
Net revenue by geographic segment is pro vided in Table 1
below and sho ws a clear re duction in sales in China o ver the
three year period:
Table 1: Net Revenue by Geographic Segment (in New Taiwan Dollars
Millions) (TSM, 2021)
Net
Revenue
%
Net
Revenue
%
Net
Revenue
%
Asia-Pacific
(excluding
China &
Japan)
96,512 9 144,448 11 225,950 14
China 208,101 20 233,783 17 164,552 10
North
America 640,335 60 827,511 62 1,035,982 65
Europe,
Middle
East, Africa
67,568 6 70,214 5 89,010 6
Japan 57,469 5 63,299 5 71,921 5
Total 1,069,985 100 1,339,255 100 1,587,415 100
Semiconductor manuf acturing operations at TSM are
conducted across the globe, are a substantial in vestment, and
are mainly a fix ed c ost asset onc e estab lished (TSM, 2021).
There are significant operations in Taiwan, Nanjing in China,
268 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 293]
Arizona in the United States and Kumamoto in Japan (PowerRiggs, 2023; TSM, 2021). When manuf acturing output rises,
and costs at the manuf acturing operations is fixed, these costs
are spread o ver higher output, and then profit margins
increase. Applying the same princip les when output de clines,
profit margins decline (TSM, 2021).
TSM maintains an e cosystem of emp loyees, supp liers and
semiconductor fabrication facilities in Taiwan that pro vides a
flexible, efficient and effective resource that allows operational
synergies (TSM, 2019; TSM, 2020).
TSM does e xtensive business in China, but is w ary these
“operations...may be dela yed, interrupte d, suspende d or
cancelled due to unf oreseeable social and po litical f actors”
(TSM, 2021: 4).
TSM c onsiders its human resourc es its most important
business asset. The great ma jority of the TSM w orkforce of
65,152 (2020 56,831; 2019 51,297) is loc ated in Taiwan, as is
the majority of the top management team. The China business
and operations has a head c ount of 4,131 and North Americ a
business and operations a head c ount of 2,188. W orkers in
small numbers are loc ated in Europe (2021 54 emp loyees;
2020 52; 2019 50), Jap an (2021 152; 2020 78; 2019 32) and
Korea two employees (TSM, 2021).
TSM maintain a w orkforce of engine ers that is fle xible in
work loc ation and c an be mo ved temporarily from one
manufacturing f acility to another if re quired (TSM, 2021).
This can assist w orking on a semic onductor design prob lem,
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 269

[Page 294]
or a manufacturing process issue in a timely way (TSM, 2021).
This is easier to do betw een Taiwan, Jap an and the Unite d
States, there remains risk on the ongoing ability of TSM to
move human resources for this type of work in China who are
not Chinese citizens (TSM, 2021).
In terms of education 4.1% of TSM employees have a PhD,
47.3% a M aster’s degre e, and 27.6% a univ ersity b achelor
degree (TSM, 2021).
TSM are well aware of the risk of cyberattacks and have been
proactive in establishing a comprehensive security network for
internet access and c omputing. However despite these eff orts
TSM kno w they remain vulnerab le to c yberattack on
computing s ystems, and key c orporate functions (e.g.,
accounting, manufacturing operations) (TSM, 2020).
ASML Holding N.V. makes the photolithography machines
used to make c omputer chips. The ma jor suppliers of w afers
to TSM are Glob alWafers of T aiwan, F ormosa SUMCO
Technology Corporation of T aiwan, Shin-E tsu Handotai of
Japan, SUMCO Corporation of Jap an, and Siltronic A G of
Germany (TSM, 2021).
Research and dev elopment (R & D) is an important
requirement f or suc cess in the f oundry segment and more
broadly in the semic onductor industry (TSM, 2019). This is
a fast moving industry en vironment with rapid te chnological
change that can render recently introduced products and their
associated te chnology obso lete (TSM, 2021). Sustaine d
investment at sc ale is re quired to remain c ompetitive, and
270 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 295]
TSM has estab lished a large number of p atents in the Unite d
States and other legal jurisdictions (TSM, 2020).
TSM spending on R & D in the p ast thre e years in New
Taiwan dollars (NT), and United States dollars (USD), and as
a percentage of total revenue is provided in Table 2 below:
Table 2: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
Limited R&D Spending 2019-2021 (TSM, 2021)
NT
(Millions)
USD
(Millions)
% Total
Revenue
2019 91,419 8.6
2020 109,484 8.2
2021 124,735 4,497 7.9
R & D is currently f ocused on advanced process technologies
including 5-, 7-, 10- and 16- nanometre technology to beat our
rivals to the market. It is anticip ated that process technologies
will go to the 3- and 2- nanometre in future y ears re quiring
further R & D spend. R & D is also re quired on TSM mature
technologies to service existing customers (TSM, 2021).
TSM currently do c entralised R & D w ork, p lus R & D
located at each of their f abrication facilities. Centralised R &
D is in a variety of areas: advancement of new logic (e.g., metal
oxide semic onductor logic), s ystem on a chip , s ystem in
package, deriv ative design appro aches, and c ost eff ective
system integration so lutions (e.g., chip on w afer substrate)
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 271

[Page 296]
(TSM2021; Sperling, 2012). The f abrication facilities R & D
is focused on improvements in manufacturing process.
The ma jority of rev enue is earne d in T aiwan, though
significant revenue is earned offshore (TSM, 2020). There is an
historical trend of de cline in a verage selling pric e for end use
applications and the components such as semiconductors that
go into these products (TSM, 2021).
In 2021 there has be en a signific ant e xpansion in noncurrent liabilities, current assets and non-current assets. The
16% improvement in net profit after tax in 2021 c ompared to
2020 has assisted the improvement in net assets up 35% (TSM,
2021). Summary financial data is pro vided in Table 3 belo w.
There has be en a strong long run sales gro wth trend (TSM,
2021).
The Future for Taiwan
Semiconductor
Manufacturing Company
Limited Strategy
The 2021 financial year has seen a strong increase in cash, total
assets, net equity and earnings per share as the five key strategy
elements were pursued:
• Improving quality and productivity from TSM
272 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 297]
fabrication facilities
• Generate greater wafer output from existing capacity
• Create greater production capacity, strengthening capital
expenditure
• Improve customer service
• Improve research and development infrastructure
(TSM, 2021).
But no w, po litical tensions betw een Taiwan and China has
been associate d with a depresse d TSM share pric e; these are
matters of some social and po litical c omplexity which are
difficult for the top management team and bo ard to c ontrol
(TSM, 2021). Great in vestors like W arren Buff et are
significantly and quickly reducing their shareholdings (Forbes,
2023). Will the current strategy settings be enough?
What will be the best future f or TSM? Is the c orporate
symbolism in the mission, vision and v alues correct? Is TSM
doing enough on ESG? Should TSM div ersify geographically
its operations more? Or should TSM simp ly try to impro ve
within its e xisting manuf acturing f ootprint in e xisting
countries? Should TSM div ersify its key clients b y total
revenue more? What lev el of commitment is suitable for R &
D? Is the structure of the board of directors optimal?
<tdstyle=”width: 20%; f ont-weight: bo ld;”
colspan=”5′′>Balance Sheet Highlights
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 273

[Page 298]
Table 3: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
Summary Financial Data (TSM, 2021)
$’000 2020 NT$
Millions
2021 NT$
Millions
%
Change
US$
Millions
Income Statement Highlights
Total Revenue 1,339,254.8 1,587,415.0 +19 57,224.8
Cost of Revenue (628,124.7) (767,877.7) (27,681.3)
Gross Profit 711,130.1 819,537.3 29,543.5
Finance Expenses (2,081.5) (5,414.2) (195.2)
Net Profit Before
Tax 584,746.3 663,036.0 23,901.8
Net Profit After
Tax 511,008.0 592,880.6 +16 21,372.8
Basic Earnings Per
Share $98.48 $114.22 +16 $4.12
Balance Sheet Highlights
Total Current
Assets 1,092,185.3 1,607,072.9 57,933.4
Total Non-current
Assets 1,668,415.2 2,118,229.3 76,360.1
Total Assets 2,760,600.5 3,725,302.2 +35 134,293.5
Total Current
Liabilities 631,898.4 758,352.8 27,337.9
Total Non-current
Liabilities 292,938.3 815,266.9 29,389.6
Total Liabilities 924,836.7 1,573,619.7 +70 56,727.5
274 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 299]
$’000 2020 NT$
Millions
2021 NT$
Millions
%
Change
US$
Millions
Net Assets 2,760,600.5 3,725,302.2 +35 134,293.5
Cash Flow Statement Highlights
Cash from
Operations 874,028.6 1,195,658.6 +37 43,102.3
Net Cash from
Operating
Activities
822,666.2 1,112,160.7 +35 40,092.3
Net Cash (used
in)/from Investing
Activities
(505,781.7) (836,365.8) (30,105.2)
Net Cash used in
Financing
Activities
(88,615.1) 136,608.5 4,924.6
Effect of Exchange
Rate Changes on
Cash and Cash
Equivalents
(23,498.1) (7,583.8) (273.3)
Net
Increase/(Decrease)
in Cash and Cash
Equivalents
204,771.3 404,819.6 +98 14,593.4
Cash and Cash
Equivalents End of
Year
660,170.6 1,064,990.2 +61 38,391.9
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 275

[Page 300]
References
Crawford, A., Dillard, J., F ouquet, H. & Reyno lds, I. 2021,
The w orld is dangerously dependent on T aiwan f or
semiconductors, Bloomberg. com.
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2021-01-25/
the-world-is-dangerously-dependent-on-taiwan-forsemiconductors, viewed March 9, 2023.
Deloitte, 2023, Semic onductor Industry Outloo k,
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/technology-mediaand-telecommunications/articles/semiconductor-industryoutlook.html, viewed March 9, 2023.
Fitzgerald, K. 2022, Housing supp ly held b ack b y ‘go ld
tape’, The Age, 28 July.
Forbes, 2023, Warren Buffet slashes Taiwan Semiconductor,
adds to Louisiana-P acific, https:// www.forbes.com/sites/
gurufocus/2023/02/17/warren-buffett-slashes-taiwansemiconductor-adds-to-louisiana-pacific/?sh=6f923c086f61,
viewed 9 March 2023
International M onetary Fund, 2023, Inflation peaking
amid lo w gro wth, W orld E conomic Outloo k, January ,
Inflation P eaking amid Lo w Gro wth (imf. org), view ed 9
March 2023.
Investing.com 2023, Intel business model ‘structurally
misaligned with industry dire ction,’ In vesting.com,
https://uk.investing.com/news/stock-market-news/intel276 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 301]
business-model-structurally-misaligned-with-industrydirection-analyst-says-2939848, viewed 9 March 2023.
The Economist, 2023, TSMC is making the best of a b ad
geopolitical situation (2023) The E conomist,
https://www.economist.com/business/2023/01/19/tsmc-ismaking-the-best-of-a-bad-geopolitical-situation, view ed
March 9, 2023.
Powers-Riggs, A. 2023 T aipei f ears W ashington is
weakening its Silic on Shield, F oreign P olicy. A vailable at:
https://foreignpolicy.com/2023/02/17/united-states-taiwanchina-semiconductors-silicon-shield-chips-act-biden/, view ed
March 9, 2023
Reuters, 2021, Taiwan says China waging economic warfare
against the se ctor, Reuters, 28 April,
https://www.reuters.com/article/ctech-us-taiwan-china-techidCAKBN2CF0D6-OCATC, viewed 9 March 2023.
Sperling, E. 2012, Deriv ative ICs: A loo k at the options,
Semiconductor Engine ering, 23 F ebruary,
https://semiengineering.com/derivative-ics-a-look-at-theoptions/, viewed 9 March 2023
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited,
2021, Annual Report.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited,
2020, Annual Report.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited,
2019, Annual Report.
Ting-Fang, C. & Li, L. 2022, Hua wei bets big on chip
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED:
THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING | 277

[Page 302]
packaging to c ounter US clampdo wn, FT .com,
https://www.ft.com/content/25509dc5-861b-4a6b-b07efa0e7a19009e, viewed 9 March 2023.
Wu, S. (2022) T aiwan invests in ne xt generation of talent
with slew of chip schools, Reuters, https://www.reuters.com/
markets/funds/taiwan-invests-next-generation-talent-withslew-chip-schools-2022-03-10/, viewed March 9, 2023.
278 | TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
LIMITED: THE EYES OF THE WORLD ARE WATCHING

[Page 303]
14.
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN
VIETNAM: THE
CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW
PROPERTY
By Tim O’Shannassy and Stephen Jasper
Acknowledgement
This case study includes material from third p arty copyright
works and we have made all reasonab le efforts to: clearly label
material where the c opyright is o wned by a third p arty; and
ensure that the copyright owner has consented to this material
being presented in this textbook.

Background
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 279

[Page 304]
In late 2018 Group Chief Ex ecutive James Riley, a long-term
Jardine Matheson employee, is grazing the breakfast buffet and
enjoying the company of colleagues at the M andarin Oriental
Hotel Group’s (M andarin Oriental) flagship hotel in Hong
Kong, and c annot stop thinking of the opportunity and the
challenges of opening a five-star luxury hotel in Ho Chi Minh
City V ietnam, f ormerly kno wn as Saigon. Has M andarin
Oriental chosen the right c ountry and the right loc ation
within that c ountry f or this in vestment? W ill the Ho Chi
Minh City property be able to achieve and sustain the required
room rate and ancillary rev enues to deliv er return on
investment? Ho w will M andarin Oriental deliv er their
signature customer service and service quality in Ho Chi Minh
City? There w as much to refle ct on with a tension betw een
Jardine Matheson corporate objectives and Mandarin Oriental
business-level concerns.
Ho Chi Minh City is a logic al choic e f or a M andarin
Oriental property with the gro wing V ietnam e conomy, lo w
labour costs and comparably low property ownership or lease
costs c ompared with other ma jor Asia-P acific cities such as
Hong Kong, Sydney and Melbourne. Ho Chi Minh City is the
centre of e conomic activity in V ietnam and the ma jor hub of
the southern region of the country.
In relation to o wnership structure M andarin Oriental
International Limite d is the p arent c ompany of M andarin
Oriental and a subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Group. Jardine
Matheson Group o wn a 66% shareho lding in M andarin
280 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 305]
Oriental International Limite d. M andarin Oriental
International Limite d is inc orporated in Bermuda and liste d
on the London Stock Ex change with se condary listings in
Bermuda and Singapore (Jardine Matheson, 2018).
Mandarin Oriental is famous world-wide an award-winning
owner and operator of 31 hotels and eight residenc es ac ross
21 countries and territories operating more than 7500 rooms
globally (M andarin Oriental International Limite d, 2018).
These are some of the most luxurious hotels, resorts and
residences in the world. Each hotel, resort and residence reflect
the brand ’s oriental heritage, strong emp hasis on customer
service, and sense of space.
The Company
Mandarin Oriental is a small p art of the much larger Jardine
Matheson Group. Mandarin Oriental is responsib le for 3% of
the Jardine Matheson Group’s total underlying profit (Jardine
Matheson, 2018), bringing in US $44 million in 2018.
The Jardine Matheson Group has its headquarters in Hong
Kong, and its activities are hea vily focused in Asia, with 56%
of its assets in China, 40% in South E ast Asia, and only 4%
in the rest of the w orld (Jardine Matheson, 2018). As a result,
the Jardine M atheson Group is hea vily dependent on Asian
economies, particularly China.
As with the much larger Jardine M atheson Group ,
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 281

[Page 306]
Mandarin Oriental also has an Asian b ackground. It w as
founded in 1963 with the opening of ‘The Mandarin’ in Hong
Kong, and in 1974, M andarin Oriental ac quired 49% of
Bangkok’s famous historic hotel, ‘The Oriental ’, forming the
‘Mandarin Oriental’. Mandarin Oriental has grown to a global
brand with a total of 12,500 emp loyees and total c apital
investment US $125 million (Jardine M atheson, 2018). The
company is inc orporated in Bermuda and liste d on the stock
exchange in London, Singapore and Bermuda (M andarin
Oriental International Limited, 2019).
The current group chief executive of the Mandarin Oriental
Hotel Group, James Riley, has had a long career within Jardine
Matheson, ha ving be en there sinc e 1993. His previous ro les
include Financ e Dire ctor of Jardine Cy cle & Carriage and
Jardine P acific, and M anaging Dire ctor of Jardine P acific
before being appointe d Jardine M atheson’s Group Financ e
Director in 2005. From 2012 to 2016, Mr Riley w as a nonexecutive Director of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking
Corporation and Chairman of its Audit Committe e. Before
joining Jardine M atheson he qualifie d as a Chartere d
Accountant with Price Waterhouse in London and then spent
seven y ears as an in vestment b anker with Klein wort Benson
(Bloomberg, 2016).
Given the div ersity of divisions within the Jardine
Matheson Group, it w ould seem that there is a great deal of
autonomy in M andarin Oriental in terms of operations, as it
is a v ery distinct identity within the portf olio of the Jardine
282 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 307]
Matheson Group’s assets. Ho wever, the leadership team of
the Mandarin Oriental is p aid somewhat belo w the industry
average (Bloomberg, 2019), although this ma y refle ct the
Mandarin Oriental being p art of a much larger group of
companies.
The Branding
Mandarin Oriental is brande d as a prestige off ering, with
luxury fiv e-star ac commodation. Their state d mission is to
‘completely delight and satisfy our guests. We are committed to
continual improvement, to making a diff erence every day and
to being the best’ (M andarin Oriental Hotel Group , 2019a).
The hotel chain began in Hong Kong and Bangko k, with
location being a signific ant f actor in the de cision to build a
hotel. M andarin Oriental hotels are loc ated in prestigious
neighbourhoods in cities such as the P asseig de Gràcia in
Barcelona and Knightsbridge in London and clients include
royalty and some of the richest industrialist f amilies in the
world.
There is also a strong marketing campaign for the Mandarin
Oriental using high profile c elebrities (M andarin Oriental
Hotel Group , 2019a) such as actors M organ Fre eman and
Lucy Liu, singer-songwriter Za yn Malik and champion go lfer
Adam Sc ott (M andarin Oriental Hotel Group , 2019b), to
enhance the sense of prestige and luxury.
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 283

[Page 308]
Information te chnology has also be en a signific ant
component building the Mandarin Oriental brand. Microsoft
technologies were working with Mandarin Oriental to provide
premium digital e xperiences f or guests (Mic rosoft
Corporation, 2014). Ho wever, digital e xperiences f or guests
has not always gone to p lan. For example, Mandarin Oriental
was hacke d and c redit c ard data w as sto len in a hack attack
on the c ompany’s netw ork (BBC News, 2015). Sinc e then
Mandarin Oriental has w orked hard to restore f aith in their
digital te chnology (Delporte 2018), with an ongoing
commitment to c ontinue to make in vestments in te chnology
to ensure a high quality customer e xperience as te chnology
steadily adv ances (M andarin Oriental New Y ork, 2018). As
evidence of this c ommitment M andarin Oriental is the first
hotel to off er “business and te chnology butlers” on-site who
provide information technology support to guests 24 hours a
day (Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong, 2018).
Mandarin Oriental was slow to initiate a loyalty program for
its customers (Skift Inc., 2018), finding that their customers
wanted different benefits for their stays (e.g., upgrades) rather
than complementary nights at a hotel. However, the Mandarin
Oriental has in vested hea vily in digital marketing, using
websites with multiple languages that can be viewed easily on a
mobile (Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, 2019a).
Mandarin Oriental room pric es in Asia c an vary at the lo w
end from US$135 to US$140 per night in Kuala Lumpur and
Jakarta to v ery e xpensive in Hong Kong depending on the
284 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 309]
season. Ancillary sales with each room boo king (e.g. f ood,
alcohol) also influenc e profitability of room boo kings overall
for a property.
Mandarin Oriental Hotel
Group Financial Performance
In 2018 earnings bef ore interest, tax, depre ciation and
amortisation w ere higher at US$179 million (2017 US$158
million). Underlying profit was higher at US$65 million (2017
US$55 million) with earnings per share at US 5.16 cents (2017
US 4.37 c ents). Mandarin Oriental net debt at y ear end 2018
was US$285 million (2017 US$327 million) with gearing as
a perc entage of adjuste d shareho lders’ funds 5% (2017 6%).
Within the M andarin Oriental portf olio of properties Hong
Kong and Singapore w ere the best perf ormers, with one-off
fees f or Las V egas and Atlanta also assisting 2018 results
positively. Jakarta is also sho wing noticeable improvement in
2018 (M andarin Oriental International Limite d Annual
Report, 2018).
The Current Situation in
Vietnam
Despite a change in leadership due to the sudden death of
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 285

[Page 310]
president Trần Đại Quang in 2018, Vietnam is relatively stable
politically and e conomically, with gross domestic product
forecast to expand 7% in 2019. V ietnam has a stab le currency
and inflation rate, and the c entral authorities are c ommitted
to sustainab le gro wth (Central Intelligenc e Agenc y 2018;
Nguyen, 2018). Vietnam has successfully made the transition
from a centralised planned economy to a free market economy
(Fforde, 2019). There is also a strong manuf acturing se ctor
in V ietnam, and a relativ ely y oung population (Central
Intelligence Agency, 2018). In vestors are also attracte d to the
Vietnamese e conomy and V ietnam has strong f oreign dire ct
investment inflows as V ietnam opens e conomically (Central
Intelligence Agency, 2018). Consumer c onfidence is relatively
high in V ietnam c ompared with Thailand, M alaysia or
Singapore (Nguyen, 2018).
However, there are potential prob lems looming f or the
Vietnamese economy, with e conomists stating that ‘V ietnam
needs to ke ep an ey e on borro wing’, with c redit c ard use
increasing, the Vietnamese government being close to its debt
ceiling, a high proportion of b ad debts in the b anking sector,
a collapsing real estate se ctor, and the potential of e conomic
downside from the effects of a trade war between the U.S. and
China (Nguyen, 2018).
Due to the rapid dev elopment of the V ietnamese economy
there are signific ant en vironmental challenges, with w ater
pollution and so lid w aste treatment being substantial issues,
and the en vironmental situation in V ietnam is deteriorating
286 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 311]
due to a lack of go vernmental resources (GlobalSecurity.org,
2019). Be cause of the poor en vironmental c onditions in
Vietnam there is a v ery high risk of inf ectious diseases,
especially food or waterborne diseases for travellers to Vietnam
(Central Intelligence Agency, 2018).
Another issue is a reluctanc e to use internet b anking in
Vietnam, with many retailers not online, including restaurants
(Toan et al. 2018). While the b anking s ystem is highly
regulated (similar to China and India), the V ietnamese
banking sector is not as efficient as either China or India, but
is relatively inefficient (Nguyen TPT, 2018). The V ietnamese
banking sector faces a number of difficulties in terms of human
resources, with a lack of emp loyees with the skills to use
banking inf ormation te chnology effectively and inf ormation
technology professionals to support an online banking system
(Toan et al., 2018).
There are also a number of legal restrictions in V ietnam.
While V ietnam is po litically and e conomically stab le, legal
avenues such as fre edom of inf ormation legislation, while
aligned with best practic e, is in practic e ‘mainly symbolic and
might not f acilitate practic es of real transp arency in the
country’ (Dang Trung & Do, 2018).
Culturally, using Hofste de’s six dimensions of culture
model, V ietnam has a relativ ely high po wer distanc e inde x
(Hofstede, 2017). This high power distance index implies that
Vietnamese pe ople ‘ac cept a hierarchic al order in which
everybody has a place and which needs no further justification’
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 287

[Page 312]
(Hofstede, 2017), imp lying that in the hospitality industry ,
particularly high-end operations catering to the top end of the
market, staff attitudes are more likely to f acilitate customer
comfort.
Ho Chi Minh City as a
Destination
Most of the ma jor hotels in Ho Chi Minh City are clustere d
around Nguyen Hue Street which runs from the landmark Ho
Chi Minh City Hall. These hotels include the Reverie Ho Chi
Minh City, the Park Hyatt and the f amous Rex Hotel which
is o wned b y the state-o wned enterprise Ho Chi Minh City
Tourist, and this loc ation is likely to be where the M andarin
Oriental locates its new hotel in Ho Chi Minh City.
In recent years the hospitality industry has had substantial
changes to its landsc ape, with the rise of online boo king
systems rather than the use of travel agents to secure bookings.
Additionally, the rise of hotel pric e comparison sites such as
Trivago and W otif ha ve put more po wer in the hands of
customers, although these sites are less fre quently use d f or
large hotel chains such as the M andarin Oriental (M artinFuentes & Mellinas, 2018), as well as a number of hotel review
sites such as Y elp and T ripAdvisor (Bigné, W illiam & SoriaOlivas, 2019; Duffy , 2015). Also , the rise of AirBnB has
significantly altere d the use of hotels, although again this
288 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 313]
product f ocuses on the lo w end of the market rather than
five-star ac commodation such as the M andarin Oriental
(Belarmino et al., 2019; Guttentag et al., 2018).
Because of the shift in te chnology in the hospitality
industry, the M andarin Oriental Hotel Group has sought to
be a leader in this sp ace, investing heavily in digital marketing
(Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, 2019a).
In terms of hotel operations, because of the high risk of food
or waterborne infectious diseases (Central Intelligence Agency,
2018), e xtra c are ne eds to be taken with the w ater supp ly,
water purification and kitchen in the proposed hotel, as well as
training hotel staff in safe food handling techniques to achieve
Mandarin Oriental quality standards. Ov erseas supp liers,
including suppliers from Australia, are keen to supply produce
to the Vietnamese market, and with a strong French influence
on V ietnamese cuisine, dairy products are p articularly w ell
received in the V ietnamese c ontext (Australian T rade and
Investment Commission, 2019).
The Future
The V ietnamese market clearly off ers a number of
opportunities to multinational c orporations such as the
Mandarin Oriental, with a strong, stab le and gro wing
economy, stab le currenc y and po litical stability . Ho wever,
there are also sev eral signific ant challenges in operating a
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 289

[Page 314]
premium hotel in the V ietnamese market, and the M andarin
Oriental Hotel Group ne eds to b alance the opportunities
offered in V ietnam with the challenges of opening and
operating a profitab le hotel in Ho Chi Minh city . Should
Mandarin Oriental open a luxury hotel in Ho Chi Minh city?
If so, what precautions should it take to ensure that the brand
is protected and enhanced by this operation? What price point
per room night c an M andarin Oriental hope to achiev e in
Ho Chi Minh City? Ho w will M andarin Oriental achiev e its
signature lev el of customer servic e in Ho Chi Minh City?
What value will the Ho Chi Minh City property add to the
Mandarin Oriental in support of the o verall e xpansion
strategy?
References
Australian T rade and In vestment Commission 2019, F ood
and beverage to V ietnam – Trends and opportunities, 21 Jul
2019, <https:// www.austrade.gov.au/Australian/Export/
Export-markets/Countries/Vietnam/Industries/food-andbeverage>.
BBC News 2015, Luxury hotel chain confirms hack attack,
London, Unite d Kingdom, 16 Jul 2019,
<https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-31753935>.
Belarmino, A, Whalen, E, Ko h, Y & Bo wen, JT 2019,
‘Comparing guests ’ key attributes of pe er-to-peer
290 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 315]
accommodations and hotels: mix ed-methods appro ach’,
Current Issues in Tourism, vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 1-7.
Bigné, E, William, E & Soria-Olivas, E 2019, ‘Similarity and
Consistency in Hotel Online Ratings ac ross Platf orms’,
Journal of Travel Research, in press.
Bloomberg 2016, P eter James Ho lland Riley , New Y ork,
NY, Unite d States, 18 Jul 2019,
<https://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/people/
person.asp?personId=212411661&privcapId=409322>.
—- 2019, Company Overview of Mandarin Oriental Hotel
Group Limite d, New Y ork, NY, Unite d States, 18 Jul 2019,
<https://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/
people.asp?privcapId=60410182>.
Central Intelligence Agency 2018, The World Factbook, 16
July 2019, <https:// www.cia.gov/library/publications/theworld-factbook/geos/vm.html>.
Dang Trung, H & Do , LP 2018, ‘Fre edom of Information
Law Comes to V ietnam: How Do Human Rights Adapt to
Goals of E conomic Dev elopment and P olitical Stability?’,
Australian Journal of Asian Law, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 1-18.
Delporte, L 2018, Digital T echnology at the M andarin
Oriental, P aris, Franc e, 18 Jul 2019, <https:// www.luxuryhotel-expert.com/digital-technology-mandarin-oriental/>.
Duffy, A 2015, ‘Friends and f ellow tra velers: c omparative
influence of review sites and friends on hotel choic e’, Journal
of Hospitality and T ourism T echnology, v ol. 6, no . 2, pp .
127-44.
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 291

[Page 316]
Fforde, A 2019, From p lan to market: The e conomic
transition in V ietnam, Routle dge, Abingdon, Unite d
Kingdom.
GlobalSecurity.org 2019, 16 Jul 2019,
<https://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/vietnam/
enviro.htm>.
Guttentag, D , Smith, S, P otwarka, L & Ha vitz, M 2018,
‘Why T ourists Choose Airbnb: A M otivation-Based
Segmentation Study’, Journal of T ravel Research, vol. 57, no.
3, pp. 342-59.
Hofstede, G 2017, What about V ietnam?, 21 Jul 2019,
<https://www.hofstede-insights.com/country/vietnam/>.
Jardine Matheson 2018, Annual Report, Hong Kong.
Mandarin Oriental 2019a, Business Profile, 18 Jul 2019,
<http://photos.mandarinoriental.com/is/content/
MandarinOriental/corporate-business-profile>.
—- 2019b , The F an Camp aign, 18 Jul 2019,
<https://www.mandarinoriental.com/celebrity-fans>.
Mandarin Oriental Hong Kong 2018, M andarin Oriental,
Hong Kong – T echnology 18 Jul 2019,
<https://photos.mandarinoriental.com/is/content/
MandarinOriental/corporate-hong-kong-PK-technology-atmohk>.
Mandarin Oriental International Limite d 2019, Share
Information, 18 Jul 2019,
<https://www.mandarinoriental.com/investors/shareinformation>.
292 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

[Page 317]
Mandarin Oriental New Y ork 2018, M andarin Oriental,
New Y ork T echnology F act She et, 18 Jul 2019,
<https://photos.mandarinoriental.com/is/content/
MandarinOriental/corporate-new-york-PK-tech>.
Martin-Fuentes, E & M ellinas, JP 2018, ‘Hotels that most
rely on Booking. com–online travel agencies (OTAs) and hotel
distribution channels ’, Tourism Review , v ol. 73, no . 4, pp .
465-79.
Microsoft Corp . 2014, Mic rosoft te chnologies pro vide
Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group with premium digital
experiences for guests, Re dmond, WA, Unite d States, 18 Jul
2019, <https:// www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/
microsoft-technologies-provide-mandarin-oriental-hotelgroup-with-premium-digital-experiences-forguests-267182401.html>.
Nguyen, H 2018, Business Booming in V ietnam,
Washington, DC, Unite d States, 16 Jul 2019,
<https://www.voanews.com/east-asia-pacific/businessbooming-vietnam>.
Nguyen, TPT 2018, ‘Comp arison of efficienc y and
technology across the banking systems of Vietnam, China and
India: A stochastic c ost and revenue meta-frontier approach’,
Benchmarking: An International Journal, v ol. 25, no . 9, pp .
3809-30.
Skift Inc. 2018, T echnology Finally Con vinced M andarin
Oriental to Launch a Loyalty Program, New York, NY, United
States, 18 Jul 2019, <https:// skift.com/2018/04/10/
MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY | 293

[Page 318]
technology-finally-convinced-mandarin-oriental-to-launch-aloyalty-program/>.
Toan, LD, Phu, NH, Van Nhan, H, Yen, HTP & Tam, NQ
2018, ‘Technology acceptance and future of internet b anking
in V ietnam’, F oresight and STI Go vernance, v ol. 12, no . 2
(eng), pp. 36-48.
294 | MANDARIN ORIENTAL IN VIETNAM: THE CHALLENGES OF
ESTABLISHING A NEW PROPERTY

