[Page 1]
Understanding Business

[Page 3]
UNDERSTANDING BUSINESS
EDITED BY ANELA TOMAC
Cones toga Op en Learning
Kit chener

[Page 4]
Understanding Business Copyright
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License, except where otherwise noted.
This book and the media within may not be used in the training of large language models or otherwise be ingested into
LLMs or generative AI software without the permission of Conestoga College.

[Page 5]
CONTENTS
Preface xiii
Acknowledgments xvii
Editor’s Acknowledgments xix
Accessibility xxi
Attributions xxii
About the Editor xxxii
Chapter 1: Habits for Business Success and Teamwork
Chapter Preview 3
1.1: Benefits of a College or University Credential 4
1.2: Build the Skills Employers Need 6
1.3: Study Smarter Not Harder 11
1.4: Develop Habits that Support Your Success 17
1.5: Acquire Work Experience and Learn Professional Etiquette 23
1.6: Working in Teams 26
1.7: Factors Affecting Team Performance 36
Chapter Review 41
Chapter 2: Business Concepts
Chapter Preview 51
2.1: The Role of the Government in Canadian Business 52
2.2: Differentiate between For-Profit and Not-for-Profit Organizations 53

[Page 6]
2.3: Economic Benefits When Businesses Earn Profits 55
2.4: Business Sectors and Industries 57
2.5: Business Participants and Stakeholders 60
2.6: Functional Areas of Business 63
2.7: Factors of Production: The Building Blocks of Business 67
2.8: The Internal and External Business Environments 70
Chapter Review 78
Chapter 3: Economics and Banking
Chapter Preview 85
3.1: How Business and Economics Work 86
3.2: Economic Systems 93
3.3: Degrees of Competition 98
3.4: The Basics of Supply and Demand 101
3.5: Measuring the Health of the Economy 106
3.6: Economic Forecasting 114
3.7: The Government’s Role in Managing the Economy 116
3.8: The Characteristics and Supply of Money 121
3.9: The International Banking Structure 126
Chapter Review 131
Chapter 4: Global Business
Chapter Preview 141
4.1: Why Do Nations Trade? 142
4.2: Measuring Trade Between Nations 148
4.3: Opportunities in International Business 153
4.4: Types of International Business Organizations 160

[Page 7]
4.5: The Impact of Culture and Politics on Global Business 169
4.6: The Global Business Environment 178
4.7: Reducing International Trade Barriers 185
Chapter Review 192
Chapter 5: Ethics and Social Responsibility
Chapter Preview 201
5.1: Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the UN's Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs)
5.2: CSR and Various Stakeholders 206
5.3: Carroll’s Corporate Social Responsibility Pyramid 211
5.4: The CSR and ESG Framework 219
5.5: Personal and Business Ethics 222
5.6: Identifying Ethical Issues, Lapses, and Dilemmas 224
5.7: Encouraging Ethics in the Workplace 231
Chapter Review 240
Chapter 6: Entrepreneurship and Business Structure
Chapter Preview 249
6.1: The Importance of Entrepreneurship 250
6.2: Reasons Small Businesses Succeed or Fail 253
6.3: Entrepreneurial Traits and Key Motivational Factors 256
6.4: Types of Entrepreneurs 260
6.5: Steps to Creating a New Business 265
6.6: Choosing a Business Structure 268
6.7: Business Plan 278
6.8: Business Model Canvas 282

[Page 8]
6.9: Support for Entrepreneurs 284
Chapter Review 292
Chapter 7: Management and Leadership
Chapter Preview 301
7.1: The Four Functions of Management 302
7.2: Planning — The First Function of Management 304
7.3: Managerial Skills 308
7.4: The Four Types of Managerial Planning 313
7.5: Environmental Analysis 317
7.6: Organizing — The Second Function of Management 324
7.7: Leading — The Third Function of Management 328
7.8: Motivating Employees 332
7.9: Controlling — The Fourth Function of Management 342
Chapter Review 347
Chapter 8: Marketing Management
Chapter Preview 357
8.1: Marketing and Consumer Behaviour 358
8.2: The Marketing Concept 362
8.3: Marketing Strategy 366
8.4: Target Markets 368
8.5: The Marketing Mix and the First P — Product 370
8.6: Branding 374
8.7: The 4 Ps: Price and Place 379
8.8: The Fourth P — Promotion 382
8.9: Retaining Customers 389

[Page 9]
Chapter Review 394
Chapter 9: Human Resource Management
Chapter Preview 403
9.1: Human Resource Management 404
9.2: Human Resource Planning Process 406
9.3: The Recruitment and Selection Process 409
9.4: Developing Employees 419
9.5: Performance Appraisal 423
9.6: Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility (IDEA) in the Workplace 426
9.7: Retaining Valuable Employees 431
9.8: Compensation and Benefits 439
9.9: Losing Valuable Employees 443
Chapter Review 447
Chapter 10: Financial Management and Accounting
Chapter Preview 457
10.1: What Is Financial Management? 459
10.2: Forecasts, Budgets, and Financial Controls 461
10.3: Business Financial Needs 464
10.4: The Role of Accounting 469
10.5: The Function of Financial Statements 474
10.6: Financial Statement Analysis 484
Chapter Review 495

[Page 10]
Chapter 11: Operations Management
Chapter Preview 503
11.1: The Production Process 504
11.2: Operations Management for Manufacturing 508
11.3: The Relationship between Supply Chain, Value Chain and the Circular Economy 512
11.4: The Role of the Operations Manager 519
11.5 Production Planning for the Manufacturing Sector 521
11.6: Production Control for the Manufacturing Sector 527
11.7: Quality Control for the Manufacturing Sector 535
11.8: Production Process Technologies 539
11.9: Operations Management for Service Providers 542
11.10: Operations Planning for Service Providers 544
11.11: Operations Control for Service Providers 549
11.12: Quality Control for Service Providers 553
Chapter Review 558
Chapter 12: Information and Risk Management
Chapter Preview 569
12.1: Big Data: The Foundation of Modern Business Intelligence (BI) 571
12.2: Data Security: Protecting Valuable Assets 573
12.3: Information Sharing—Collaboration and Risks 575
12.4: Information Mining and Visualization 577
12.5: Information Management: An Integrated Approach 579
12.6: Risk Management in Business Operations 581
12.7: Real Versus Perceived Risk 582
12.8: Risk Tolerance 584
12.9: Risk Management 585
12.10: Risk Management Across Different Sectors 588

[Page 11]
12.11: Risk Response Strategy 593
12.12: AI in Business: Enhancing Information and Risk Management 596
12.13: Risk Management Standards 600
Chapter Review 603
Chapter 13: Managing Personal Finances
Chapter Preview 611
13.1: Financial Planning 612
13.2: Manage Personal Debt 615
13.3: Managing your Income and Expenses 618
13.4: Grow Your Money 624
13.5: Banking 629
13.6: Build a Good Credit Rating 632
Chapter Review 637
Appendix: Case Studies 643
Glossary of Terms 657

[Page 13]
PREFACE
Understanding Business serves as a c omprehensive introduction to the dynamic w orld of business. Designe d
with first-year college and university students in mind—p articularly those new to the subje ct—this textbook
provides a solid starting point for learners aspiring to build a career in business.
The boo k e xplores the c ore functions of business operations, demonstrating ho w v arious dep artments
collaborate to driv e sales, manage financial resourc es, innovate products and servic es, engage customers, and
make strategic de cisions. It also c overs vital themes such as ethic al business practic es, c orporate social
responsibility, teamwork, risk management, and personal financial literacy. In addition, readers are introduced
to the princip les of entrepreneurship and the c ritical roles that managers and leaders p lay in organizational
success.
With a f ocus on Canadian e conomic and b anking s ystems, the te xt off ers loc alized insights while
maintaining a global perspective through examples drawn from Canada, the U.S., and beyond.
This open educational resource (OER), edited by Anela Tomac, is based on Business Fundamentals by Kerri
Shields. Both Understanding Busi ness and Business Fu ndamentals trace their origins to the 2018 Canadian
edition of Virginia Tech’s Fundamentals of Business.
In response to the ev olving business landscape, Kerri Shields enhanc ed the original c ontent by integrating
material from additional OERs, updating statistics, and expanding coverage in areas such as entrepreneurship,
marketing, management, personal financ e, sustainability, and ethics. She also introduc ed new chapters on
business success and risk management.
Building on this f oundation, Anela Tomac reorganized and restructured the table of contents and further
developed the resourc e to me et the ne eds of toda y’s introductory business c ourses, inc orporating c areer
spotlight vignettes, sustainability and entrepreneurial initiativ es, and short c ase studies with discussion
questions to enrich student engagement and learning. Anela included more Canadian e xamples and made
additional changes f or c onciseness, currenc y, and clarity . Some substantiv e chapter changes and chapter
features unique to Understanding Business are summarized in Table 0.1.
PREFACE | XIII

[Page 14]
Table 0.1: Changes and unique chapter features in Understanding Business
Chapter Title Revisions
Habits for
Business Success
and Teamwork
Included a section on teamwork. Added a team charter as an example. Removed the
section on personal finances, pet peeves, and cultural norms.
2 Business
Concepts Added examples of SWOT and PESTEL analyses.
3 Economics and
Banking
An example of scarcity was added to illustrate the concept. Removed the section on
M-3 money.
4 Global Business Added content on cross-cultural literacy and Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions Theory,
and illustrated it with a comparison of Canadian and Filipino cultures.
5 Ethics and Social
Responsibility
The Principles for Responsible Management (PRME) and Conestoga College’s
commitment to PRME are showcased in section 5.1: CSR and the UN’s SDGs.
Entrepreneurship
and Business
Structure
Added an example of a business plan for a hypothetical product. Showcased the
Conestoga Entrepreneurship Collective in section 6.9: Support for Entrepreneurs.
Included the real-life entrepreneurial journey of a Kitchener-based new Canadian.
7 Management and
Leadership Added a SWOT analysis for lululemon and an example of managerial skills.
8 Marketing
Management Used the example of Tim Hortons to illustrate the 4Ps of marketing.
Human
Resources
Management
Removed the sections on employment law and unions. Condensed the section on
training.
Financial
Management and
Accounting
Condensed the section on financing. Removed the section on breakeven analysis.
11 Operations
Management No substantive changes.
Information and
Risk
Management
No substantive changes.
13 Managing
Personal Finances No substantive changes.
Key Features of this OER
Structure
This OER is divided into thirteen chapters. Each chapter begins with an overview of the content to be covered
XIV | PREFACE

[Page 15]
and lists the objectives the student will achieve after reading the chapter. Each learning objective is linked to a
section within the chapter, thereb y ensuring that a student attains all the learning outc omes after reading the
chapter.
Real-world Scenarios and Realistic Cases
The narrative provides several examples of real business scenarios, including examples of sustainable businesses,
entrepreneurial pathways, supply chain issues, inf ormation breaches, and ethic al lapses. Current grap hs and
tables connect learning to the real world.
Career Spotlights
Most chapters end with engaging end-of-chapter vignettes that f eature successful business pe ople, many of
whom are Conestoga alumni. Their profiles and quotes give students insights into their career trajectories.
Examples
Examples are embe dded throughout the c ontent. Some useful e xamples include samp les of a team charter,
business plan, SWOT analysis, and PESTEL analysis, among others.
Short scenario-based cases
Although the case scenarios are hypothetical, they are based on realistic examples and present students with a
business problem, followed by a brief overview of the situation. Discussion questions can be used for classroom
debate or can be assigned by the instructor for individual reflection or group work.
Emphasis on Readability
We used tools that increase readability and speed review of the material, including headings and sub headings,
bolded key terms within the te xt that are hyperlinked to definitions, end-of-chapter key takeaway summaries,
and a glossary of terms.
Review and Practice
Each chapter ends with key takea ways that reinf orce learning b y summarizing the most c ritical points from
each section.
The multiple-choice questions are programme d as interactiv e activities that pro vide students with a selfPREFACE | XV

[Page 16]
test opportunity at the end of the chapter. They also off er students f eedback in real-time to c onfirm their
understanding of the concepts presented in each section.
The “End-of-Chapter Ex ercises” test students ’ understanding of the c oncepts presente d in each chapter
and encourage students to e xpand their understanding b y researching v arious concepts on the Internet and
presenting their findings to the group.
Engaging “Chapter in Review” PDFs are available for students to download for offline review.
Instructor Ancillaries
A Test Bank and Case Study So lutions are a vailable f or this OER. Note that re questing f aculty must be
vetted before Open Learning at Conestoga College can distribute these ancillaries. Ancillaries are for teaching
purposes and should not be shared publically.
To obtain the instructor ancillaries f or this OER, p lease send an email to Open Learning at Conestoga
College.

As part of our commitment to delivering high-quality open
educational resources (OERs) and open access learning
materials (OAs), we invite you to report your OER and OA
adoptions. The information you provide helps us to
continue supporting high-quality OERs, track impact
statistics, and save costs. We will use the data collected in
this form to gather information about your use of OERs
supported by Open Learning at Conestoga College. If you’ve adopted an open textbook
supported by Open Learning at Conestoga College, we’d love to hear from you! Please share
your adoptions with us by completing our Report an Adoption Form.

XVI | PREFACE

[Page 17]
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Land Acknowledgment
At Conestoga College, we would like to acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford,
we are loc ated on the Haldimand T ract, the land promise d to the Haudenosaune e pe ople of Six Nations,
which includes six miles on either side of the Grand River. This is the traditional territory of the Anishinaabe,
Haudenosaunee, and Neutral peoples. Recognizing the land is an e xpression of gratitude and appre ciation to
those whose environment we reside in and a w ay of honouring the Indigenous pe ople living and working on
the ground for thousands of years.
Leadership Team
• Dr. Barbara Kelly, Executive Dean, School of Business
• Scott Dart, BSc, MBA, CPP, Chair, School of Business
• Wendy Dunbar, BSc, Program Manager, School of Business
Reviewers
• Debra Good, MBA, CPA, CMA, Professor, School of Business, Conestoga College ITAL
• Steven Kupina, MA, MIR, Professor, School of Business, Conestoga College ITAL
• Camelia Nunez, MBET, Professor, School of Business, Conestoga College ITAL
Open Learning Team
• Kimberlee Carter, MA, BEd, OER Consultant
• Daleara (Dela) Hirjikaka, MA, Instructional Designer
• Rachel Stuckey, MA, Instructional Designer
• Simone Larin, MSCom, Administrative & Quality Assurance Officer
• Cecile Michniewicz, MEd, Instructional Designer
• Olu Oke, MA, BEd, OER Project Coordinator
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS | XVII

[Page 18]
Student OER Assistants
• Girish Bhuteja
• Justin Blake
• Silvana Morales Cortes
• Thanmayi Dayala
• Kahan Desai
• Sarthak Gupta
• Ermiyas Gulti
• Graham Ellacott
XVIII | ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

[Page 19]
EDITOR’S ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I would like to e xtend my heartfelt thanks to Kerri Shields, whose f oundational work on this OER laid the
groundwork for its continued success and relevance.
I am also deeply grateful to the incredible OER team at Conestoga College, whose collaboration, creativity,
and dedication made this update possib le. I wish to ackno wledge the un wavering support of our leadership
team at Conestoga, whose c ommitment to open e ducation and student suc cess has be en instrumental in
bringing this project to life.
I also want to thank my professional network for their generosity and willingness to contribute to this OER
by sharing their career journeys, enriching the learning experience for our students. Special thanks to:
• Trish Almgren
• Katarina Borg
• Amanda Buck
• Alex Budzinski
• Julie Dupont
• Tanya Golesic
• Kim Majetic
• Lance McLellan
• Jesse Michael
• Iva Bravic Millereau
• Katarina Milicic
• Kristin Mueller
• Donna Schwartzentruber
I would like to thank my colleagues at Conestoga College for their contributions to this OER. Spe cial thanks
to:
• Anna Hohenadel, Accreditation Consultant, Conestoga College
• Rose Mastnak, MBA, Director, Conestoga Entrepreneurship Collective.
• Camelia Nunez, Professor, Entrepreneurship and Innovation, Conestoga College ITAL
A note of thanks to V idhya M ohandas of V idhyalaya Danc espace f or permitting us to f eature her
entrepreneurship journey and photograph in the OER.
EDITOR’S ACKNOWLEDGMENTS | XIX

[Page 20]
Anela Tomac
August 1, 2025
XX | EDITOR’S ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

[Page 21]
ACCESSIBILITY
Conestoga College Open Learning is c ommitted to producing open e ducational resources that are ac cessible
to as many learners as possib le. We encourage our authors to adopt a universal design f or learning appro ach
and aim to comply with the accessibility standards of the AODA and WCAG.
If y ou e xperience challenges ac cessing this resourc e or ha ve suggestions f or ho w w e might impro ve
accessibility in our OER, please contact us at openlearning@conestogac.on.ca.
For more inf ormation about ho w w e striv e to me et ac cessibility standards, p lease review the Conestoga
College Accessibility Statement for OER Projects.
This OER is a vailable in multip le f ormats, including PDF. T o do wnload, sele ct the f ormat from the
“Download this book” dropdown menu beneath the cover image on the title page.
ACCESSIBILITY | XXI

[Page 22]
ATTRIBUTIONS
“Understanding Business,” e dited b y Anela T omac, Cop yright © Conestoga Co llege, w as pub lished b y
Conestoga Open Learning in 2025 and is lic ensed under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercialShareAlike 4.0 International except where otherwise note d. Any derivative work must include an attribution
statement on each page, with a link back to the original work. Please use the following template statement as a
guide:
Unless otherwise indicated, this [insert chapter or work description] contains material adapted from
“Understanding Business,” e dited b y Anela T omac and pub lished b y Conestoga Open Learning in
2025, and is use d under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
International License. Download and access this OER for free at Understanding Business.
Attributions for Understanding Business
Understanding Business is an adaptation of Business Fundamentals, 1st E dition, copyright
Shields and use d under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License. Adaptations include a reorganization of chapters and the addition of original content.
• Chapter 1: Habits of Business Success and Teamwork in Understanding Business is a remix of Habits for
Business Success and Business Concepts and Teamwork from Business Fundamentals and is used under
a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.
• Chapter 2: Business Concepts is an adaptation of Business Concepts and Teamwork from Business
Fundamentals and is used under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
International License.
• Chapter 4: Section 4.5 adapts material from
◦ 13.1 What Is Culture? and 13.3 Cross-Cultural Literacy from International Trade and Finance,
Part 2 Feasibility of International Trade” by Dina Majid, published by Conestoga Open Learning
in 2024, and is used under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
International license.
Design Credits for Understanding Business
Credits for photos and figures are included in the chapter attributions lists where appropriate. Several exhibits
XXII | ATTRIBUTIONS

[Page 23]
were adapted by the Open Learning team at Conestoga College under the direction of the editor. Other credits
include:
• Book cover designed by Sarthak Gupta
• Cover photo by fauxels from Pexels, used under the Pexels License.
• Career Spotlight feature designed by Cecile Michniewicz
• Chapter in Review downloadable PDFs designed by Thanmayi Dayala
ATTRIBUTIONS | XXIII

[Page 24]
Attributions from Business Fundamentals by Kerri Shields
XXIV | ATTRIBUTIONS

[Page 25]
Table 0.2: Attributions for Business Fundamentals by Kerri Shields
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 1:
Habits for
Business Success
N/A N/A
Chapter 2:
Business
Concepts and
Teamwork
“Foundations of Business” in NSCC
Fundamentals of Business Copyright ©
2021 NSCC Edition by NSCC, Pamplin
College of Business and Virginia Tech
Libraries is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
The Apple World of Business
Chapter 2:
Business
Concepts and
Teamwork
“The Nature of Business” in Introduction
to Business Copyright
by OpenStax is licensed under Creative
Commons Attribution License v4.0,
except where otherwise noted.
Economic Benefits When Businesses Earn
Profits and Factors of Production: The Building
Blocks of Business
Chapter 2:
Business
Concepts and
Teamwork
“Teamwork in Business” in Fundamentals
of Business Copyright
Daddey and Rachael Newton is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Business Participants, Stakeholders, and
Functional Areas of Business; Group Cohesion;
and Factors that Erode Team Performance
Chapter 2:
Business
Concepts and
Teamwork
“Foundations of Business” and
“Teamwork in Business” in Fundamentals
of Business: Canadian Edition Copyright

College of Business and Virginia Tech
Libraries is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Team Roles, Blocking Roles H5P, Class Team
Projects, and Team Contract H5P
Chapter 3:
Management and
Leadership
“Management and Leadership in Today’s
Organizations” in Introduction to
Business Copyright
licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution License v4.0
Four Functions of Management and Planning,
Organizing, and Leading
ATTRIBUTIONS | XXV

[Page 26]
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 3:
Management and
Leadership
“Governance Board Membership” in
Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian
Business Copyright
Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and Maureen
Sterling is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Governance Board Membership
Chapter 3:
Management and
Leadership
“The Role of Managers” in Fundamentals
of Business Copyright
Daddey and Rachael Newton is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Controlling, Managerial Skills, SMART Goals,
and A Six-Step Approach to Decision Making
Chapter 3:
Management and
Leadership
Fundamentals of Business: Canadian
Edition Copyright
Edition) by Pamplin College of Business
and Virginia Tech Libraries is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Motivating Employees
Chapter 4:
Entrepreneurship
and Business
Structure
“New Venture Innovation” in Leading
Innovation, 2nd Edition Copyright ©
2023 by Kerri Shields is licensed under
a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
All with some adaptations
Chapter 4:
Entrepreneurship
and Business
Structure
Fundamentals of Business Copyright ©
2022 by Florence Daddey and Rachael
Newton is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Business Structure (partial with adaptations)
Chapter 5:
Economics and
Banking
“Indigenous Entrepreneurship” in
Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian
Business Copyright
Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and Maureen
Sterling is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Indigenous Entrepreneurship: Economic
Leakage
XXVI | ATTRIBUTIONS

[Page 27]
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 5:
Economics and
Banking
“Economics and Business” and “Money
and Banking” in Fundamentals of
Business Copyright
Daddey and Rachael Newton is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
All with some adaptations
Chapter 6:
Ethics, Law, and
Social
Responsibility
Fundamentals of Business, 3rd
edition Copyright
Skripak and Ron Poff is licensed under
a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Personal and Business Ethics (partial with some
adaptations) and The Individual Approach to
Ethics (partial with some adaptations)
Chapter 6:
Ethics, Law, and
Social
Responsibility
Ethics and Social Responsibility Copyright

Colleges and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) (partial
with some adaptations), CSR and Various
Stakeholders (partial with some adaptations),
and Carroll’s Corporate Social Responsibility
Pyramid (with adaptations)
Chapter 7:
Global Business
Business in a Global
Environment Copyright
by Business Faculty from Ontario Colleges
and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
The Globalization of Business: Why Do Nations
Trade? (partial with some adaptations), The
Global Environment (partial with some
adaptations), Trade Controls (partial with some
adaptations), and Reducing International Trade
Barriers (partial with some adaptations)
Chapter 7:
Global Business
“Business in a Global Environment” in
Fundamentals of Business Copyright ©
2022 by Florence Daddey and Rachael
Newton is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Why Do Nations Trade? (partial with some
adaptations), Measuring Trade Between Nations
(partial with some adaptations),
and Opportunities in International Business
(partial with some adaptations)
ATTRIBUTIONS | XXVII

[Page 28]
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 8:
Marketing
Management
“Authenticity and Indigenous Products” in
Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian
Business Copyright
Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and Maureen
Sterling is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Authenticity and Indigenous Products
Chapter 8:
Marketing
Management
Marketing: Providing Value Copyright ©
2024 by Business Faculty from Ontario
Colleges and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
What is Marketing? (with some
adaptations), Target Markets (with some
adaptations), and The Marketing Mix (with
some adaptations)
Chapter 9:
Operations
Management
Operations Management Copyright ©
2024 by Business Faculty from Ontario
Colleges and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Operations Management for Manufacturing
(partial with some adaptations), Production
Planning (partial with some
adaptations), Production Control (partial with
some adaptations), Graphical Tools: Gannt and
PERT charts, Production Process Technologies
(with some adaptations), Operations
Management for Service Providers (with some
adaptations), and Producing for Quality (with
some adaptations)
Chapter 10:
Financial
Management and
Accounting
“Overcoming Entrepreneurial Challenges”
in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian
Business Copyright
Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and Maureen
Sterling is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Overcoming Entrepreneurial Challenges:
Financing
Chapter 10:
Financial
Management and
Accounting
“Accounting and Financial Information”
in Fundamentals of Business, 3rd
edition Copyright
Skripak and Ron Poff is licensed under
a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
The Role of Accounting

XXVIII | ATTRIBUTIONS

[Page 29]
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 10:
Financial
Management and
Accounting
“Money and Banking” in Fundamentals of
Business Copyright
Daddey and Rachael Newton is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Sources of Funding
Chapter 10:
Financial
Management and
Accounting
“Accounting and Financial Information”
in Introduction to Canadian Business,
Accounting and Financial
Information Copyright
by Business Faculty from Ontario Colleges
and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
The Functions of Financial Statements
Chapter 10:
Financial
Management and
Accounting
“Accounting and Financial Information”
in Fundamentals of Business: Canadian
Edition Copyright
Edition) by Pamplin College of Business
and Virginia Tech Libraries is licensed
under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Financial Statement Analysis
Chapter 11:
Human
Resources
Management
Corporate Indigenous Inclusion” in
Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian
Business Copyright
Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and Maureen
Sterling is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
Corporate Indigenous Inclusion: Equity,
Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
Chapter 11:
Human
Resources
Management
“Managing Human Resources” in
Managing Human Resources Copyright ©
2024 by Business Faculty from Ontario
Colleges and eCampusOntario Program
Managers is licensed under a Creative
Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
All (except Unions) with some adaptations
ATTRIBUTIONS | XXIX

[Page 30]
Book Chapter Adaptations from OER Sources Level 1 Chapter Headings
Chapter 12:
Information and
Risk
Management
Risk Management – Supply Chain and
Operations Perspective Copyright
by Azim Abbas and Larry Watson is
licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
What is Risk? (partial with adaptations)

Chapter 13:
Managing
Personal Finances
“Personal Finances” in Introduction to
Canadian Business, Personal
Finances Copyright
Faculty from Ontario Colleges and
eCampusOntario Program Managers is
licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike
4.0 International License, except where
otherwise noted.
All with some adaptations
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure
While human authors and e ditors created, reviewed, and refine d the material, the integration of AI assiste d
with the creation of the following aspects of this OER:
• The following content was created with the assistance of Microsoft Copilot.
◦ Section 1.6: Team charter
◦ Section 2.8: PESTEL analysis—Tim Hortons
◦ Section 3.1: Example: Scarcity of farmland
◦ Section 4.5: A comparison of Canadian and Filipino cultures using Hofstede’s six dimensions
◦ Section 6.7: Business plan — SafeStep Solutions
◦ Section 7.3: Common managerial skills
◦ Section 7.5: SWOT analysis — lululemon
◦ Section 8.5: Marketing mix and Tim Hortons
◦ Appendix: Case Studies and Case Studies Solutions
• New multiple-choice questions for the test bank and Chapter 1 were created using the output from the
Arizona State University Question Generator tool and Microsoft Copilot.
• The image descriptions and alt text for the exhibits in this publication were created using the output
from the Arizona State University Image Accessibility Creator tool.
Microsoft Copilot was used to enhance various aspects of the content, including research and brainstorming.
Our commitment to quality at Conestoga College ensures that Open Learning holds faculty and staff to high
XXX | ATTRIBUTIONS

[Page 31]
standards. Therefore, authors’ use of AI is vetted for transparency, and they are accountable for their content’s
accuracy, integrity, and originality. We are committed to transparency and believe that the use of AI contributes
to the quality and accessibility of this resource.
In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the content created using Generative AI
tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
ATTRIBUTIONS | XXXI

[Page 32]
ABOUT THE EDITOR
Anela Tomac, B.Sc, MBA, C.Mgr, is a professor and program coordinator at Conestoga College in Kitchener,
Ontario. Her career at Conestoga began in 2008, and since then, she has been dedicated to promoting teaching
excellence, supporting students, and dev eloping open teaching materials f or the ac ademic community. She
teaches various business courses, including Introduction to Business, Workplace Success Strategies, Marketing,
etc. She has degre es in Grap hic Design, Adv ertising Design, M arketing Communic ations, and a M aster’s
in Business Administration. She also ho lds a c ertificate in Online M arketing from the Canadian M arketing
Association and a Chartered Manager designation from CIM Chartered Managers Canada.
Before joining Conestoga College, Anela built a successful career in marketing, holding various roles in both
Ontario and New Y ork City. Anela contributed to the 2018 e dition of Business Fundamentals, pub lished
by eCampusOntario , and serv ed as V ice President of M arketing on the Bo ard of Dire ctors f or Chartere d
Managers Canada from 2017 to 2019.
Outside of her professional life, Anela enjoys travelling to her native Europe and spending quality time with
her family.
XXXII | ABOUT THE EDITOR

[Page 33]
CHAPTER 1: HABITS FOR
BUSINESS SUCCESS AND
TEAMWORK
CHAPTER 1: HABITS FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS AND TEAMWORK | 1

[Page 34]
2 | CHAPTER 1: HABITS FOR BUSINESS SUCCESS AND TEAMWORK

[Page 35]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter is designe d to e quip you with essential kno wledge and skills that will help y ou succeed in y our
undergraduate studies and prepare you for a thriving career in business.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. List five benefits of obtaining a college or university credential.
2. Discuss five of the skills the Conference Board of Canada lists as Employability Skills.
3. Identify the study skills, learning styles, and college supports that will help you succeed in
your undergraduate studies.
4. Describe the habits and tips that will help you to succeed in your academic and professional
career.
5. Discuss ways in which a student can gain business work experience and learn professional
etiquette.
6. Identify team types, stages of formation, team roles, and characteristics.
7. Identify factors that can cause conflict and affect team performance and discuss ways to
resolve these.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 3

[Page 36]
1.1: BENEFITS OF A COLLEGE OR
UNIVERSITY CREDENTIAL
Why should y ou enro ll in a c ollege or univ ersity program? One of the most c ompelling reasons to attend
college or university is to obtain credentials, learn skills and gain knowledge that will help you earn more money
than you could have without a postse condary credential. Some of the other benefits of obtaining a higher
education credential include the following:
• Increased job prospects. When looking for work in Canada, Canadian employers like to see that you
attended a Canadian school because managers often recognize these schools. If you did not attend a
Canadian school, it may be helpful to get a credential evaluation, as doing so will help employers
compare the school you attended in another country to Canadian schools.1
There are various
associations that perform credential evaluations, such as World Education Services (WES), that compare
your academic accomplishments to standards in Canada and the U.S. These credential evaluations help
institutions like schools, employers, licensing boards, and immigration authorities better understand
your educational background.2
• Higher wages. Workers with degrees earn higher wages and experience lower levels of unemployment
than those with only a high school diploma.3
Generally, the higher levels of education you have when
working in Canada, the more money you earn.4
• Increased job security. You may be better equipped for economic turmoil if you have a college or
university credential.5
• Greater life satisfaction. More schooling could lead to a happier life. People with bachelor’s degrees tend
to be happier than those without one.6
1. Rego, A. (2021, February 23). Higher education offers benefits to newcomers. Prepare for Canada.
2. World Education Services. (n.d.). About WES credential evaluation.
3. Andrews, G. (2024, August 12). Is college worth it? Consider these factors before enrolling. Forbes.
4. Statistics Canada. (2023, October 4). Employment income statistics by highest level of education: Canada, provinces and territories, census divisions
and census subdivisions.
5. Kumok, Z. (2023, June 14). 7 compelling reasons why you should go to college. Forbes.
6. Kumok, Z. (2023, June 14). 7 compelling reasons why you should go to college. Forbes.
4 | 1.1: BENEFITS OF A COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY CREDENTIAL

[Page 37]
• Easier access to health insurance and other benefits. College and university graduates are more likely to
work for companies that offer health insurance benefits than high school graduates.7
Continue to Learn
Lifelong learning is the ongoing, v oluntary, and self-motiv ated pursuit of kno wledge for either personal or
professional reasons. Lifelong learning is a workplace necessity for most employees. It can help employees adapt
to changing work demands, improve their performance, and increase their job satisfaction. Many organizations
will provide professional development funds f or employees’ personal learning and gro wth. Some c ompanies
may require employees to c ommit to a set number of months or y ears with the c ompany after c ompleting a
company-funded professional development program.
7. Kumok, Z. (2023, June 14). 7 compelling reasons why you should go to college. Forbes.
1.1: BENEFITS OF A COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY CREDENTIAL | 5

[Page 38]
1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED
In addition to the benefits of obtaining a college or university credential, you will also build new skills that will
help you obtain a job, retain the position, and be suc cessful in growing your career. Specific jobs may require
specific hard skills, such as a Web Designer who needs hard skills in using softw are in order to build w ebsites.
Beyond hard skills, soft skills are re quired in order f or y ou to c ommunicate, w ork in teams, and manage
yourself professionally in the w orkplace. Soft skills are c onsidered transferable skills and are often c onsidered
employability skills. Employability skills are the skills you need to enter, stay in, and progress in the world of
work, whether you work on your own or as part of a team. Some of the most important employability skills you
will need are the ability to w ork well with others, be a productiv e team member, and c ommunicate well with
others. Did you know that 90% of projects require team participation as opposed to individual responsibility,
and 31% of c ompanies say that misc ommunication about proje ct objectives is the number one reason wh y
projects fail?1
The Conference Board of Canada provides the Employability Skills Toolkit for download. The Toolkit is a
guide to the skills needed to adapt and succeed in the world of work. It includes explanations and descriptions
of these skills and ways to build them. The Toolkit includes key information about how to become job-ready
and exercises to practic e and app ly what y ou have learned. These activities enc ourage thinking about which
skills you have, which skills you may need to work on, and ho w you can improve them. The update d version
of the Toolkit also includes information on how to prepare for and succeed in the future of w ork. You’ll find
new content on digital skills and social and emotional skills to help y ou understand some of the skills that are
in high demand b y employers. Given the imp acts of te chnology and automation on the w orking world, this
version of the Toolkit also includes a new section on how to develop a change-ready, lifelong learning mindset,
which is essential to help you navigate job transitions.2
Employability skills fall into four broad categories as shown in Figure 1.1.

1. Stone, K. (2020, July 9). The state of project management in 2023 [42 statistics]. Saalist.
2. Conference Board of Canada. (n.d.). Finding your employability skills.
6 | 1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED

[Page 39]
Figure 1.1: The Conference Board of Canada’s four categories of employability skills. [See image description.]
According to a b log post by Matt Gavin at Harvard Business School Online, every professional should know
the following business fundamentals:3
• Analytics. The demand for professionals with a keen understanding of business analytics and data
science is on the rise.
• Financial accounting. No matter your profession, understanding the meaning behind the numbers on
financial statements can be a boon to your career.
• Economics. Beyond an in-depth knowledge of your industry’s market demands, studying economics can
equip you with the necessary skills to craft a successful business strategy and help your firm succeed
against competitors.
• Leadership. The ability to lead and mobilize others is vital for all professionals.
• Negotiation. Knowledge of effective bargaining tactics can help you resolve conflicts that are otherwise
deadlocked and equip you with the skills needed to maximize value in agreements.
• Strategy. An understanding of strategy formulation and execution can help professionals across all
industries, making it easier for their organizations to meet business goals and adapt to new challenges
and opportunities.
• Global business. Many of today’s largest and most successful organizations, such as Apple and Walmart,
are multinational corporations conducting business worldwide. In an age of globalization, it’s highly
beneficial for today’s professionals to broaden their knowledge of international business.
Communication Skills
The communication skills identified by the Conference Board of Canada include the following.4
3. Gavin, M. (2019, September 26). 7 business fundamentals professionals in every industry should know. Harvard Business School Online.
4. Conference Board of Canada. (n.d.). Finding your employability skills.
1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED | 7

[Page 40]
• Read and understand information presented in different ways (e.g., words, graphs, charts, diagrams).
• Write and speak so others can pay attention and understand.
• Listen and ask questions to understand and appreciate the points of view of others.
• Share information using different technologies (e.g., phone calls, e-mail, social media, the Internet).
• Use relevant knowledge and skills to explain or clarify ideas.
Teamwork Skills
In every job, you will be re quired to w ork with pe ople. In c ollege and univ ersity, you often w ork with y our
peers on group proje cts. Interacting with c olleagues, managers, customers, and supp liers is p art of ev eryday
communication.
The team work skills identifie d b y the Conf erence Bo ard of Canada, W ork with Others, include the
following:5
• Understand and work within the roles of a group.
• Make sure that a team’s purpose and aims are clear.
• Respect and support the thoughts, opinions, and contributions of others.
• Recognize and respect people’s diversity and perspectives.
• Accept and provide feedback in a useful and kind manner.
• Add to a team by sharing information and skills.
• Lead or support when it’s appropriate.
• Understand the role of conflict in a group in reaching solutions.
• Manage and settle conflicts.
The teamwork skills identified by the Conference Board of Canada, Participate in Projects and Tasks, include
the following:
• Design or carry out a project with well-defined outcomes.
• Develop a plan, ask for feedback, and apply it.
• Work to shared standards of quality.
• Choose and use the right tools for a task or project.
• Adapt to changing information and conditions.
• Keep an eye on the success of a project or task throughout and find ways to improve.
5. Conference Board of Canada. (n.d.). Finding your employability skills.
8 | 1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED

[Page 41]
Employability Skills – Have You Got Them?
Watch the YouTube video below, “Employability Skills – Have You Got Them?” to learn about the
soft skills you need to succeed in your academic career as well as your business career.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=43#oembed-1
Transcript for “Employability Skills—Have You Got Them?” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning
is available on YouTube.
Source: The WOW Show. (2020, March 1). Employability skills – have you got them? [Video].
YouTube.
Media Attributions
“Figure 1.1: Conf erence Board of Canada: F our Categories of Emp loyability Skills is adapte d from Chapter
1: Habits for Business Success in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BYNC-SA.
Image Descriptions
Figure 1.1
• Blue square – “Fundamental Skills: These form the basis of your employability skills.”
• Purple square – “Social and Emotional Skills: These include your ability to read and manage emotions
and build relationships.”
1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED | 9

[Page 42]
• Green square – “Personal Management Skills: These are your personal skills, attitudes, and behaviours.”
• Dark orange square – “Teamwork Skills: These are the skills you need to contribute productively to a
group.”
[back to figure]
10 | 1.2: BUILD THE SKILLS EMPLOYERS NEED

[Page 43]
Student studying and making notes.
1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER
College and univ ersity c an be challenging when it c omes to alloc ating time f or studying and c ompleting
assignments.
Study Tips
Below is a list of 10 study tips that will help get y ou
through those long study sessions.1
• The Pomodoro Technique. Set a timer for 25
minutes and dive into your work. When the
timer rings, you’ve earned a five-minute break.
Repeat four times, then take a longer break.
This study method is proven to boost focus
and help prevent study fatigue.
• Block distracting apps. Set your phone to Do Not Disturb to silence notifications.
• Learn by chunking. Break down complex information into bite-sized pieces, or “chunks”. Focus on one
section at a time. This makes information more manageable and less intimidating, allowing your brain
to form patterns and connections, enhancing recall and understanding.
• Study after exercising. Physical activity increases blood flow, delivering more oxygen and nutrients to
your brain. This can enhance cognitive functions like memory, problem-solving, and attention.
• Listen to recorded lectures at 2x speed. After attending your lectures, make it a habit to re-listen to them
at double speed if there are recordings available. This technique helps reinforce what you’ve already
heard and allows you to cover more material in less time.
• Reward yourself. Incorporating a reward system into your study routine can significantly enhance your
motivation and productivity.
• Study with all of the lights on. A well-lit study environment can significantly impact your ability to
concentrate and stay alert. Natural light, in particular, is associated with improved energy levels and
mood.
1. Claire. (2024, August 1). 12 insanely smart study hacks for college students. College Savvy.
1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER | 11

[Page 44]
• Study in groups. If you’re studying the same information as the people around you, it can actually help
deepen your understanding of the material. You’ll be able to share your different perspectives, quiz each
other on the material, and fill in gaps in each other’s knowledge.
• Teach to learn. They say the best way to deeply learn anything is to teach it to someone else. Many
colleges and universities have tutoring positions for students who have achieved high grades in their
courses. Check with your institution’s library or student services department. You can teach a colleague
about course concepts while you make some extra money at the same time.
• Use mnemonics. Mnemonics are memory aids that help you recall complex information through simple
associations, like acronyms, rhymes, or visual imagery. They transform hard-to-remember data into a
format that’s easier to remember.
SQ4R Reading System
A technique you might apply to reduce reading time is the SQ4R reading system. The SQ4R reading system
is designed to help you study your textbook and apply reading and notetaking skills. The letters in SQ4R stand
for five steps: survey, question, read, reflect, recite, and review. These steps will help you gain more from what
you read and be better prep ared for quizzes and exams. In other words, you will maximize the return on y our
time investment for reading!2
Learning Style
It is important f or y ou to identify y our learning style. Which w ay do y ou learn best? Do y ou learn best
by doing, b y observing, b y listening, b y w atching, or through a c ombination of these things? Learning
styles refers to the diff erent methods of learning or understanding new inf ormation, the w ay a person takes
in, understands, e xpresses and remembers inf ormation. There are f our predominant learning styles: V isual,
Auditory, Read/Write, and Kinaesthetic. Often, c olleges and univ ersities have assessments y ou can take that
will help you identify your learning style as well as your strengths and abilities. The majority of people have one
dominant learning style, although most pe ople benefit from several different learning styles. When learning is
presented in a way that is consistent with someone’s dominant learning style, they tend to learn more quickly
and with less frustration.
When you are enro lled in a c ourse and y ou find y ou are struggling to learn the c oncepts, you may need
to make a p lan to help y ourself. F or e xample, if the prof essor is teaching in le cture f ormat and y ou ne ed
more e xamples and vide os, then after class, y ou might search online f or vide os or e xamples that will help
2. Utah State University. (n.d.). SQ4R reading system [PDF].
12 | 1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER

[Page 45]
you understand what the prof essor’s lecture was about. You might also ask questions and re quest additional
exercises or a meeting with the professor, or maybe, you would do better by obtaining a tutor. You need to be
proactive in your education and feel free to discuss issues that you may have with the professor, your academic
advisor and your peers. You may be able to form a learning-buddy relationship with a pe er, which may help
you both understand the lessons better.
Student Support
Identify what support the institution pro vides for students and utilize what y ou need to be suc cessful. Ask
yourself these questions:
• Does the school provide tutors at no charge?
• Does the school provide help with math beyond the classroom?
• Does the school offer extra English tutoring?
• Does the school have an Accessibility Office that can provide students with accommodations?
• Does the school loan laptops or other learning devices to students?
• Does the school allow access to library resources when off campus?
• Does the library provide lessons to students on researching, citing, and using the library resources?
• Does the student association have clubs that might help students study?
• Does the school provide study spaces?
• Does the student association provide information on housing, used books, clothing, food, etc.?
• Does the school provide open educational learning resources?
• Does the school offer student scholarships?
• Does the library have learning strategists who can help with time management, stress management, and
study tips?
You will ne ed to find answ ers to y our many questions. Use the c ollege or univ ersity website and read about
student experience, student support, and student services that the institution provides. When you are in need
of support, ask f or it. Your ac ademic advisor, international advisor, prof essor, program c oordinator, and
service areas at the c ollege or univ ersity can help. Everyone working at the c ollege or univ ersity is there to
support your learning journey and provide you with the tools and resources you need to be successful.
Grades
One of the most important things you need to understand in each course is the course outline (also referred to
as the course syllabus). You need to review this in the first week of class and ask your professor questions if you
1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER | 13

[Page 46]
A teacher asking a student to leave the
classroom after a breach of academic integrity.
do not understand how you will be graded. The course outline should provide you with a breakdown of what
you can expect to be taught in the course, what the course learning outcomes (sometimes called objectives) are,
and how you will be assessed on your learning. Often, assessment due dates are provided in advance, and you
should record these in a calendar and always, always, work ahead of due dates. When you leave off completing
assignments until the night bef ore they are due, y ou are not prep aring for success. So man y things ma y go
wrong, such as a te chnology failure, or you may find you do not understand some of the instructions, or y ou
may find the assignment is much more time-consuming than you had thought. You should always plan ahead
and be prepared for things that ma y go wrong. Plan to ha ve your assignments completed a day or two ahead
of the due date; that w ay, if your technology does fail, you will be ab le to use another devic e, or if y ou don’t
understand some instructions, then you have time to clarify these with the professor.
It is important to ke ep your grades as high as y ou can. You do this b y planning your time w ell, keeping a
calendar and working ahead of due dates, asking questions when y ou need help, and completing the learning
tasks you are assigne d. When students do the readings assigne d, watch the vide os assigned, and attend and
participate in class, they often do very well in achieving high grades. Your GPA score (Grade Point Average)
is a cumulation of the grades ac ross the c ourses throughout y our program. T o graduate, y our institution
will have a minimum GP A score you must achiev e, and should y ou wish to further y our e ducation in the
future, your GPA score may factor into whether or not you will be accepted for enrollment at specific colleges
or univ ersities. If y ou de cide in the future to study another program at a diff erent institution, y ou ma y
want to app ly for transfer credit, and most c olleges and univ ersities have minimum grade re quirements for
accepting transfer credits (this is often a C grade, but check with the institution). Many schools calculate GPAs
differently, but you can usually find this information on the institution’s website.
Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is a c ommitment to acting with
honesty, trust, f airness, respe ct, and responsibility in
academic w ork and studies. A f ew questions to ask
yourself when completing school assignments include the
following.
• Can I ask a friend to share their work with me?
• Can I hire someone to do the work for me?
• Can I get a generative AI such as ChatGPT to do
the work for me?
• Can I use an assignment mill such as Course Hero
to find the assignment answer posted by someone
else?
14 | 1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER

[Page 47]
The answer to each of these questions is generally NO!
Generative AI
With that said, there may be occasions when your professor allows you to use generative AI to help you research
or get started with a writing assignment. When y ou do use ChatGPT or other AI too ls, you will need to cite
them as a sourc e of inf ormation in the same w ay you would cite a w ebsite, video, book, or other sourc e of
information you may use. Remember that you may only use the resourc es permitted by the professor to aid
you in c ompleting assignments. Otherwise, y our work ma y be identifie d as p lagiarized or in breach of the
academic integrity po licy. Be sure y ou familiarize yourself with the institution’s po licies, and spe cifically the
academic integrity policy.
Avoid Plagiarism
Plagiarism is when y ou use some one else’s w ork and submit it as y our o wn. This includes ideas, images,
content, or any other type of c reative work. To avoid plagiarism and academic integrity violations, you must
properly cite all sources. Plagiarism is considered unethical, and Conestoga College has strict policies against it.
Always follow the citation rules provided by your professors.
Formatting Standards
Formatting standards for documentation are c ommon in higher e ducation as well as in the w orkplace. Most
companies ha ve documentation standards that app ly to all c orrespondence that lea ves the c ompany, such
as business letters, reports, fly ers, brochures, marketing me dia, website me dia, and social me dia. Businesses
work hard to portra y a c ertain image to the pub lic, and they w ant that image to be c onsistent ac ross all
their communication channels. A citation style dictates the inf ormation necessary for a citation and ho w
the information is ordered, as well as punctuation and other f ormatting. Popular citation styles such as AP A
and MLA provide guidelines to authors on how to format documents for professionalism, for crediting other
people’s words and ideas via citations and references to avoid plagiarism, and for describing other people using
inclusive, bias-free language.
APA Formatting Style
Most college and univ ersity libraries pro vide style guides f or APA, MLA and other document f ormats. The
Purdue Online Writing Lab (O WL) Citation Chart provides examples of v arious citations f or both in-te xt
and ref erence list citations. Additional details are a vailable at the O WL Purdue w ebsite. Review Purdue
1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER | 15

[Page 48]
OWL APA F ormatting Guidelines, the Conestoga Co llege library guides , and the library guides from
CSUDH, which are also very comprehensive.
Introduction to APA Style
Watch the YouTube video below, “Introduction to Citation Styles: APA 7th ed.,” to learn about the
purpose and basic conventions of citing sources in-text and in a reference list using the American
Psychological Association (APA) Style, 7th edition, 2019.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=47#oembed-1
Transcript for “Introduction to Citation Styles: APA 7th ed.” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning
is available on YouTube.
Source: CSUDH Library. (2019, October 29). Introduction to citation styles: APA 7th ed. [Video].
YouTube.
https://pixabay.com/service/license-summary/
Media Attributions
“Man, writing, laptop image” by Stocksnap, used under the Pixabay license.
“Teacher Caught His Student Cheating During an Ex am” by RDNE Stock proje ct, used under the Pexels
license.
16 | 1.3: STUDY SMARTER NOT HARDER

[Page 49]
1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR
SUCCESS
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People
The book entitled The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, written by Stephen R. Covey, is based on Covey’s
belief that the w ay we se e the w orld is entirely b ased on our o wn perc eptions. In order to change a giv en
situation, w e must change ourselv es, and in order to change ourselv es, w e must be ab le to change our
perceptions.1
Spend a little time researching the following seven habits to really understand what they mean:
• Be proactive. Control your environment rather than have it control you.
• Begin with the end in mind. Envision the desired outcome and concentrate on activities that help in
achieving it.
• Put first things first. Manage time and effort so that the required tasks are prioritized.
• Think win-win. Co-operative effort, so there are no losers.
• Seek first to understand, then to be understood. Listen to others first, let them know they have been heard
before you speak.
• Synergize. People cooperating can often achieve more than one person could alone.
• Sharpen the saw. Take time to think, learn, and analyze.
Nine Tips for Building a Successful Career You Enjoy
Career success can be highly subje ctive, meaning each person gets to define what suc cess looks like for them.
For some people, a successful career is one that provides the most enjoyment. For others, a successful career is
one that provides certain financial benefits. Regardless of how you define it, achieving your goal of a successful
career can be an exciting and empowering experience.2
1. Nicholson, R. (2024, July 16). 7 habits of highly effective people. Hubspot.
2. Herrity, J. (2024, August 15). 9 tips for building a successful career you enjoy. Indeed.
1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS | 17

[Page 50]
• Identify your goals. What are your personal and professional goals? Have you identified your career
interests? You may want to schedule an appointment with a career advisor. Most colleges and
universities provide a Career office with career advisors who can help you determine your career
interests, search for employment, develop your resume and cover letter for specific jobs, and practice
your interview skills. It’s definitely worth a visit to your Career office.
• Keep track of progress. Set SMART goals as these are goals that are specific, measurable, attainable,
relevant and time-based. Using this structure can be a good way to support your success and make
adjustments if needed.3
• Make a plan. Identify your skills and abilities, and then search for a career you may like. Do you have the
skills you need? If not, then how will you get them? This is a good time to connect with a career advisor
and take a few career assessments to help you identify your strengths and weaknesses and find
opportunities for you to learn, grow, and prepare yourself for the career you want.
• Stay positive. A positive outlook can support you in building a successful career by keeping your mind
open to new possibilities and career paths. Practice interrupting negative thoughts and replacing them
with a positive alternative, if possible. Try to spend time with other positive people to reinforce these
thought patterns, if it makes sense for you to do so.
• Reflect often. Frequently reflecting on your career progress, current circumstances, and future options
can help you build a successful career.
• Know your strengths. When you know your strengths, you can tailor your job search accordingly and find
a position that suits your unique skills. You can also use this information to understand where to focus
your attention in professional development and expand your strengths accordingly.
• Network effectively. Your connections with other industry professionals can help you grow, make you
aware of new and interesting career paths and even make your career more enjoyable.
• Keep a growth mindset. Growth mindset is a phrase that refers to the belief that anything can be learned
if you give enough effort to learning it.
• Practice mindfulness. Mindfulness, or paying attention to your internal and external state of being, can
help you build a successful career by developing self-awareness, confidence and a sense of calm. Try
researching mindfulness techniques or visiting with a mindfulness specialist to learn ways to do so.
Mindfulness is a practice in which you focus your awareness on the present without judgment. You
create an intention to be conscious of your thinking, feeling, and sensations regarding the current
situation. You fully engage in the present moment. Interestingly, mindfulness has been researched
extensively and has all kinds of positive outcomes. For example, in a global study, those who practiced
mindfulness reduced depression by 19%, reduced anxiety by 13% and improved wellbeing by 7%,
according to research published in the British Journal of Health Psychology.4
In business, mindfulness
3. Indeed Editorial Team. (March 26, 2025). 12 Tips for creating smart goals. Indeed.
18 | 1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS

[Page 51]
can improve productivity, biases, decision-making, behaviour, creativity, and well-being. Mindfulness
programs help leaders and employees reflect effectively, focus sharply on the task at hand, master peak
levels of stress, and recharge quickly.5
In recent years, many big organizations have begun to invest in
mindfulness. Google, Nike and Procter & Gamble, for example, provide meditation rooms and classes
for employees.6
Here’s how you can practice mindfulness for benefits in your academic and business
careers: 1) Reduce distraction, 2) Avoid multi-tasking, 3) Reduce procrastination, 4) Reduce emotional
reactivity, and 5) Avoid team issues.7
Manage Time Effectively
Time management is an essential lif e skill and one that will make a huge diff erence in y our c areer. Time
management is the practic e of p lanning and c ontrolling ho w y ou use y our time to be more productiv e
and efficient. It in volves prioritizing tasks, setting deadlines, and a voiding distractions. The go al of time
management is to c omplete important tasks on time while also b alancing y our personal, prof essional, and
academic responsibilities. Some benefits of effective time management include less stress, more time for creative
or strategic proje cts, better w ork quality, and more self-c onfidence. M anaging time is an essential p art of
every busy business prof essional’s job. Most professionals use an ele ctronic calendar to track appointments,
meetings, events, etc.
4. Remskar, M., W estern. M.J., & Ainsw orth, B. (2024, August 21). Mindfulness impro ves ps ychological health and supports health beha viour
cognitions: Evidence from a pragmatic RCT of a digital mindfulness-b ased intervention. British Journal of Hea lth Psychology. https://doi.org/
10.1111/bjhp.12745
5. Greiser, C., Martini, J., & Meissner, N. (2018, April 26). Unleashing the power of mindfulness in corporations. BCG.
6. Mind Tools (n.d.). Mindfulness in the workplace.
7. Brower, T. (2024, October 31). How 5 mindfulness techniques can help your workplace productivity. Forbes.
1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS | 19

[Page 52]
Time Management Techniques for Stress Free Productivity
Play the YouTube video below, “Time Management Techniques for Stress Free Productivity,” for
some time management tips for stress-free productivity.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=52#oembed-1
Transcript for “Time Management Techniques for Stress Free Productivity” video [PDF–New Tab].
Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Young Entrepreneurs Forum. (2016, August 15). Time management techniques for stress
free productivity [Video]. YouTube.
Manage Stress Effectively
Stress is a part of everyone’s life. Stress is a physical, mental, and emotional response to a difficult event. Stress
Management offers a range of w ays to help y ou better deal with stress and difficulty in y our life. Engaging in
activities that support self-care may help reduce stress and anxiety. These can include exercise and mindfulness
practices.
Listed below are 16 evidence-based ways to relieve stress:8
8. Kubala, J. (2023, July 12). 16 simple ways to relieve stress. Healthline.
20 | 1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS

[Page 53]
Yoga is a good way to reduce stress.
• Get more physical activity
• Eat a balanced diet
• Minimize phone use and screen time
• Practice self-care
• Try journaling
• Reduce your caffeine intake
• Spend time with friends and family
• Create boundaries and learn to say no
• Avoid procrastination
• Take a yoga class
• Practice mindfulness
• Cuddle
• Spend time in nature
• Practice deep breathing
• Spend time with a pet
• Consider supplements
Taking Tests
Often, students be come stressed when there is a test to take. Y our institution ma y provide some test-taking
tips. Below are a few test-taking tips from various colleges and universities.
• Wichita State University
• Utah State University
• Southwestern University
• The Learning Portal, College Libraries Ontario
Introduction to Test-Taking Strategies
Watch the YouTube video below, “Introduction to Test-Taking Strategies” from Conestoga College,
for a quick review of helpful test-taking tips.
1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS | 21

[Page 54]
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=52#oembed-2
Transcript for “Introduction to Test-Taking Strategies” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available on YouTube.
Source: Conestoga College Student Success. (2025, January 23). Introduction to test-taking
strategies [Video]. YouTube.
Media Attributions
“Photo Of Women Stretching Together” by Cliff Booth, used under the Pexels license.
22 | 1.4: DEVELOP HABITS THAT SUPPORT YOUR SUCCESS

[Page 55]
1.5: ACQUIRE WORK EXPERIENCE AND
LEARN PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE
Gain Business Work Experience
College and university students often wonder how they will gain business work experience. Many work parttime jobs while attending school, but these jobs are usually entry-level service jobs paying minimum wage.
Some students have no work experience or have never worked in Canada. Most students hope to work in the
field they are studying after they graduate. So, how can you gain business experience in your field of study that
will help you obtain a job after you graduate?
Review the list below for some ideas on how to gain work experience:
• Volunteering is a great way to gain work experience. When you volunteer, you meet people, and these
people could become references for you when you are searching for your next job. You also gain skills
and knowledge that could be applied to future jobs. Employers like to see that you have given back to
the community or volunteered your time to help others — it says good things about your character.
• Internships and Co-op Placements are good ways to gain work experience, build your professional
network, learn new skills, and apply what you have learned in school.
• Freelance projects can be a flexible way to build expertise. Platforms like Upwork and Fiverr offer
numerous opportunities to work on real-world projects.
• Experiential course projects can help you gain real business experience. Many institutions offer
experiential course projects whereby you complete a real business project as part of your course. Riipen
is a work-based learning platform to help educators, organizations, and learners collaborate on real
industry projects to bridge the gap between education and employment. This approach is particularly
effective for tech-oriented fields. These types of projects can be added to your resume and LinkedIn
profile.
• Gain leadership experience by joining student clubs or societies. Many colleges and universities have
their own Enactus (entrepreneurship) chapter and Toastmasters (public speaking) club. Some
institutions have badges, micro-credentials, specialized academic certificates, or stackable credentials for
leadership, Indigenous Knowledges, entrepreneurship, global perspectives, sustainability, etc.
• Gain practical experience by participating in workshops and lab sessions.
• Gain business experience by getting involved in student-run businesses or start-ups.
• Gain skills by utilizing online platforms to learn new skills. Some institutions provide free access to
1.5: ACQUIRE WORK EXPERIENCE AND LEARN PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE | 23

[Page 56]
LinkedIn Learning, which houses many courses on various subjects.
The Care ers and Co-op offic e within y our institution ma y pro vide support and resourc es that will help
you find p art-time work while y ou are studying and/or a c o-op placement (if this is an option within y our
program).
Practice Business Etiquette
Business etiquette is a type of social and business behaviour that team members (whether at school or work)
are expected to exhibit. It includes how people communicate, dress, and conduct themselves in meetings and
social events. Adhering to business etiquette c an help f oster positive relationships and a harmonious w ork
environment. Some e xamples of business etiquette include treating others with c ourtesy and c onsideration,
controlling y our emotions and actions, being ac countable f or y our actions and ob ligations, and me eting
deadlines and admitting mistakes.
Professionalism is a bro ad c oncept that includes a person’s attitude, w ork ethic, and c onduct. It also
involves being punctual, dressing appropriately , and ha ving a positiv e attitude. Business etiquette is a key
component of prof essionalism. Some of the traits of prof essionalism include being dependab le and
accountable, demonstrating a sense of etiquette, making ethical decisions, being a team player, and maintaining
a positive outlook.
The Five Zones of Professional Etiquette
Watch the YouTube video “The Five Zones of Professional Etiquette” below to learn about
professional etiquette.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=55#oembed-1
24 | 1.5: ACQUIRE WORK EXPERIENCE AND LEARN PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE

[Page 57]
Transcript for “The Five Zones of Professional Etiquette (Student Version)” video [PDF–New Tab].
Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Bovee and Thill. (Young Entrepreneurs Forum). (2018, January 20). The five zones of
professional etiquette (student version) [Video]. YouTube.

1.5: ACQUIRE WORK EXPERIENCE AND LEARN PROFESSIONAL ETIQUETTE | 25

[Page 58]
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS
Types of Teams
Teams are a c ritical aspect of business. A team is a group of pe ople with c ertain skills who share a c ommon
purpose, approach, and perf ormance goals. All team members ho ld themselves responsible and ac countable
for reaching the team’s objectives. Teams are widely used in business and in many not-for-profit organizations,
such as hospitals and government agencies. Teams are one of the most frequently discussed topics in employee
training programs, because they require that people learn how to work well together. Figure 1.2 shows the five
common types of teams: Prob lem-solving teams, self-manage d teams, c ross-functional teams, virtual teams,
and work teams.

Figure 1.2: Five types of teams: Problem-solving, self-managed, cross-functional, virtual, and work teams.
[See image description.]
Team Stages
Forming, Storming, Norming, and Performing
Watch the YouTube video below, “Forming, Storming, Norming, and Performing: Bruce Tuckman’s
Team Stages Model Explained,” to learn the stages a team goes through when starting a new
project.
26 | 1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS

[Page 59]
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=59#oembed-1
Transcript for “Forming, Storming, Norming, and Performing: Bruce Tuckman’s Team Stages Model
Explained” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: MindToolsVideos. (2014, November 10). Forming, storming, norming, and performing:
Bruce Tuckman’s team stages model explained. [Video]. YouTube.
Team Roles
Team roles can be divided into two categories, task-facilitating roles and relationship-building roles. Table 1.1
provides a summary of the two categories of team roles.
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS | 27

[Page 60]
Table 1.1: Team member roles
Task-facilitating roles Example Relationship-building roles Example
Direction giving “Jot down a few ideas and we’ll see
what everyone has come up with.” Supporting “Now, that’s what I mean by a
practical application.”
Information seeking “Does anyone know if this is the latest
data we have?” Harmonizing “Actually, I think you’re both saying
pretty much the same thing.”
Information giving “Here are the latest numbers from ...” Tension relieving “Before we go on, would anyone like a
drink?”
Elaborating “I think a good example of what
you’re talking about is ...” Confronting “How does that suggestion relate to
the topic that we’re discussing?”
Urging “Let’s try to finish this proposal before
we adjourn.” Energizing
“It’s been a long time since I’ve had
this many laughs at a meeting in this
department.”
Monitoring
“If you’ll take care of the first section,
I’ll make sure that we have the second
by next week.”
Developing “If you need some help pulling the
data together, let me know.”
Process analyzing “What happened to the energy level in
this room?” Consensus building
“Do we agree on the first four points
even if number five needs a little more
work?”
Reality testing “Can we make this work and stay
within budget?” Empathizing “It’s not you. The numbers are
confusing.”
Enforcing “We’re getting off track. Let’s try to
stay on topic.” Summarizing “Before we jump ahead, here’s what
we’ve decided so far.”

[Page 61]
Task-Facilitating Roles
Task-facilitating roles help the team ac complish goals. These roles include not only pro viding information
when someone else needs it but also asking for it when you need it. In addition, these roles include monitoring
(checking on progress) and enf orcing (making sure that team de cisions are c arried out). Task facilitators are
especially valuable when assignments aren’t clear or when progress is too slow.
Relationship-Building Roles
Relationship-building r oles help team members understand their ro les, support them in their ro les, and
maintain or improve group cohesiveness. These types of roles include activities that improve team “chemistry,”
from empathizing to c onfronting. Bear in mind thre e points about this model: (1) T eams are most eff ective
when there’s a good b alance between task f acilitation and relationship-building; (2) it’s hard f or any given
member to perf orm both types of ro les, as some pe ople are better at f ocusing on tasks and others on
relationships; and (3) o verplaying any facet of an y ro le c an easily be come c ounterproductive. For e xample,
elaborating on something ma y not be the best strategy when the team ne eds to make a quick de cision, and
consensus building may cause the team to overlook an important difference of opinion.

Self-Check Exercise: Blocking Roles
So-called blocking roles consist of behaviour that inhibits either team performance or that of
individual members. Every member of the team should know how to recognize blocking behaviour.
If teams don’t confront dysfunctional members, they can destroy morale, hamper consensus
building, create conflict, and hinder progress. Demonstrate what you know about blocking
behaviours by dragging the words to match with each description.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS | 29

[Page 62]
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=59#h5p-1
Seven Characteristics of Effective Teams
Effective teams share the following characteristics:1
• Clear leadership. Successful teams usually have effective leadership, where one or several members act as
team leaders. This helps unify the entire team so that they can work toward the same goals. Effective
leaders often provide guidance, motivation and focus.
• Defined goals. Before working on their tasks, an effective team may first establish their goals. The team
might work together to identify common objectives that align with a company’s organizational goals.
• Assigned roles. When each team member has an assigned role, they can make effective contributions to
their group and help ensure its success. A team’s role might change throughout the lifetime of a project.
Effective teams often reevaluate roles once the team is assembled to ensure each member can fulfill the
expectations of their roles.
• Open communication. A team with open communication allows members to discuss their ideas and feel
that their input matters. Successful teams often welcome diverse thoughts and opinions that help them
solve problems and complete tasks in creative ways. Effective communication also involves active
listening, where members make a conscious effort to hear their teammates’ ideas and reflect before
responding to them.
• Collaboration. Team members may collaborate continuously throughout a project’s lifetime to ensure
they’re working on the right tasks and contributing to the planned outcomes. Collaborative work helps
encourage innovation through the exchange of ideas and the collective expertise of a team.
• Trust. Trust contributes to open communication, problem solving and collaboration. A successful team
might rely on team-building exercises to increase trust between its members.
• Conflict resolution. Successful teams usually have effective methods for resolving any conflicts that may
1. Indeed Editorial Team. (2024, August 15). 7 characteristics of effective teams (with benefits & tips). Indeed.
30 | 1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS

[Page 63]
arise. During a disagreement, members may speak to one another calmly, respect each other’s ideas and
focus on finding a compromise. Effective teams often view disputes as a way to improve their decisionmaking and problem-solving strategies.
Class Team Projects
Throughout your studies, you will be exposed to teams and teamwork concepts and be
required to complete projects by collaborating with your peers in teams. You will want to
consider how to make your class team-based projects as successful as possible. To get insider
advice on how to succeed on team projects in college, let’s look at some suggestions offered by
students who have gone through this experience.2
• Draw up a team charter. At the beginning of the project, draw up a team charter that
includes the goals of the group, ways to ensure that each team member’s ideas are
considered, and the timing and frequency of meetings. See Figure 1.3 for a sample team
charter. A more informal way to arrive at a team charter is to simply set some ground
rules to which everyone agrees. Your instructor may also require you to sign an existing
team contract or charter similar to the one below.
• Contribute your ideas. Share your ideas with your group. The worst that could happen
is that they won’t be used (which is what would happen if you kept quiet).
• Never miss a meeting or deadline. Pick a weekly meeting time and write it into your
schedule as if it were a class. Never skip it.
• Be considerate of each other. Be patient, listen to everyone, involve everyone in
decision making, avoid infighting, build trust.
• Create a process for resolving conflict. Do so before conflict arises. Set up rules to
help the group decide how conflict will be handled.
• Use the strengths of each team member. All students bring different strengths.
Utilize the unique value of each person.
• Don’t do all the work yourself. Work with your team to get the work done. The
project output is often less important than the experience.
2. Feenstra, K. (n.d.). Study skills: Teamwork skills for group projects. Issues I Face.
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS | 31

[Page 64]
Team Charter for a Marketing Presentation Assignment
Team Name: The Market Mavericks
Team Members:
• Roozbeh Nuri
• Remi Roy
• Kiran Patel
• Huan Li
Project Overview:
Our team will create a marketing presentation for a new product launch. The presentation will
include market analysis, target audience identification, marketing strategies, and a promotional
plan.
Team Goals:
• Quality: Deliver a high-quality presentation that meets or exceeds the assignment
criteria.
• Timeliness: Complete all tasks and submit the presentation by the deadline.
• Collaboration: Work effectively as a team, leveraging each member’s strengths.
• Learning: Gain a deeper understanding of marketing principles and presentation skills.
Roles and Responsibilities:
• Roozbeh Nuri (Team Leader): Coordinate team meetings, ensure tasks are on track,
and compile the final presentation.
• Remi Roy (Research Analyst): Conduct market research and gather data on the target
audience and competitors.
• Kiran Patel (Content Developer): Develop the content for the presentation, including
the marketing strategies and promotional plan.
• Huan Li (Designer): Create the visual elements of the presentation, including slides,
graphics, and any multimedia components.
Meeting Schedule:
• Weekly Meetings: Every Monday at 4:00 p.m.
32 | 1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS

[Page 65]
• Check-ins: Quick check-ins via group chat every Wednesday and Friday
Communication Plan:
• Primary Communication: Group chat on a messaging app (e.g., WhatsApp)
• Secondary Communication: Email for sharing documents and formal updates
• File Sharing: Use a shared folder on Google Drive for all project-related files
Decision-Making Process:
• Consensus: Decisions will be made by consensus whenever possible.
• Voting: If consensus cannot be reached, decisions will be made by majority vote.
Conflict Resolution:
• Open Communication: Address conflicts openly and respectfully during team meetings.
• Mediation: If conflicts cannot be resolved within the team, seek assistance from the
course instructor.
Milestones and Deadlines:
• Market Research Completed: February 21
• Content Development Completed: February 28
• Design and Visuals Completed: March 7
• Final Review and Revisions: March 10
• Presentation Submission: March 14
Team Norms:
• Respect: Treat all team members with respect and value their contributions.
• Responsibility: Complete assigned tasks on time and to the best of your ability.
• Participation: Actively participate in meetings and discussions.
• Support: Help team members when needed and provide constructive feedback.
This team charter outlines the structure, goals, and expectations for the team, helping ensure a
smooth and productive collaboration.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The Team Charter was created with the assistance
of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text based on user inputs. In
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS | 33

[Page 66]
accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the content created using
Generative AI tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
Figure 1.3: A Sample Team Charter
Self-Check Exercise: Team Contract
In many of your courses, you will be working in teams during school time as well as outside formal
class time. A team contract or charter is important to ensure all members have input on how the
team will work together. This charter or contract can also be referenced if a team member is not
working to expectations. Figure 1.3 shows a sample charter for a marketing assignment.
Consider Figure 1.3 and then attempt the following activity, which is encouraged to help you and
your team think through and agree on how you will operate. As a team, discuss each of the items
listed in this template and fill in the blanks to generate a basic team charter or contract as a
document.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=59#h5p-2
Media Attributions
Table 1.1 is reuse d from Figure 1.8 in Chapter 1 T eamwork in Business of Fundamentals of Business, 4th
edition by Ron P off, lic ensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0
34 | 1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS

[Page 67]
International Lic ense, e xcept where otherwise note d. Figure 1.8 is b ased on inf ormation from Whetten &
Cameron (2007). Developing management skills, 7th ed. Pearson Education. pp. 517, 519.
“Figure 1.2: Five Types of Teams: Problem-solving, self-managed, cross-functional, virtual, work teams” is
adapted from Chapter 2: Business Conc epts and Teamwork in Business Fundamentals, 1st E dition, © Kerri
Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Image Descriptions
Figure 1.2
A row of five colored rectangles, each showing a different type of team.
• Dark blue square – “Problem-Solving Teams: Teams of knowledge workers who solve specific problems”
• Orange square – “Self-Managed Teams: Teams that are empowered to decide how they complete tasks”
• Green square – “Cross-Functional Teams: Teams that are made up of members from different
functional areas of the firm”
• Purple square – “Virtual Teams: Teams of co-workers or others who use technology to communicate
and work together”
• Light blue square – “Work Teams: Teams that do the daily work, and when empowered are self-managed
teams”
[back to figure]
1.6: WORKING IN TEAMS | 35

[Page 68]
1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM
PERFORMANCE
Group Cohesiveness
Team cohesion is the strength and extent of interpersonal connection existing among the members of a group.
It is this interpersonal bond that c auses members to p articipate readily and remain motiv ated to ac complish
the set goals. Cohesive teams have an attitude of “we-ness.”1
Numerous factors may contribute to team cohesiveness, including;
• Size. The bigger the team, the less satisfied members tend to be. When teams get too large, members find
it harder to interact closely with other members; a few members tend to dominate team activities, and
conflict becomes more likely.
• Similarity. People usually get along better with people like themselves, and teams are generally more
cohesive when members perceive fellow members as people who share their own attitudes and
experience.
• Success. When teams are successful, members are satisfied, and other people are more likely to be
attracted to their teams.
• Exclusiveness. The harder it is to get into a group, the happier the people who are already in it. Team
status also increases members’ satisfaction.
• Time. The more time a group spends together, the stronger the bond between them will be. By
interacting more often, members learn about each other’s strengths, weaknesses, and skills.
• Competition. Membership is valued more highly when there is motivation to achieve common goals and
outperform other teams.
Equitable and inclusive practices. Members value and celebrate each person’s authenticity, identity, and
the unique perspectives that come with those; team members also work to create inclusive and equitable
practices in their day-to-day teamwork.
Maintaining team focus on broad organizational goals is crucial. If members get too wrapped up in immediate
1. Wale, H. (n.d.). Team cohesion. CFI.
36 | 1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM PERFORMANCE

[Page 69]
team goals, the whole team may lose sight of the larger organizational go als toward which it is supposed to be
working.
Skills for Effective Teamwork
Sometimes we hear about a sports team made up of mostly a verage players who win a championship be cause
of coaching genius, fla wless teamwork, and superhuman determination. But not terrib ly often. In f act, we
usually hear about such teams simply because they are newsworthy — exceptions to the rule. Typically, a team
performs well because its members possess some lev el of talent. M embers’ talents must also be manage d in a
collective effort to achieve a common goal.
In the final analysis, a team c an succeed only if its members possess some managerial skills. In p articular,
every team requires some combination of these four sets of skills:
• Communication skills. The ways in which members communicate can positively and negatively affect
relationships within the team and outside the team with managers, customers, vendors, etc.
• Technical skills. Teams must perform certain tasks; therefore, they need people with the skills to perform
them. For example, if your project calls for a lot of math work, it is good to have someone with the
necessary quantitative skills.
• Decision-making and problem-solving skills. Because every task is subject to problems, and because
handling every problem means deciding on the best solution, it is good to have members who are skilled
in identifying problems, evaluating alternative solutions, and deciding on the best options.
• Interpersonal skills. Because teams need direction and motivation and depend on communication, every
group benefits from members who know how to listen, provide feedback, and resolve conflict. Some
members must also be good at communicating the team’s goals and needs to outsiders.
The key is ultimately to ha ve the right mix of these skills. Remember, too , that no team ne eds to possess all
these skills — never mind the right balance of them — from day one. In many cases, a team gains certain skills
only when members volunteer for certain tasks and perfect their skills in the proc ess of performing them. For
the same reason, eff ective teamwork develops over time as team members learn ho w to handle v arious teambased tasks. In a sense, teamwork is always a work in progress.
Factors that Erode Team Performance
Just as there are factors and behaviours that contribute to teams working well together, there are some common
factors that keep teams from working well together.
1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM PERFORMANCE | 37

[Page 70]
• Groupthink. It is easy for leaders to direct members toward team goals when members are all on the same
page, i.e., when there is a basic willingness to conform to the team’s rules. When there is too much
conformity, however, the group can become ineffective; it may resist fresh ideas and, what’s worse, end
up adopting its own dysfunctional tendencies as its way of doing things. Such tendencies may also
encourage a phenomenon known as groupthink, or the tendency to conform to group pressure in
making decisions, while failing to think critically or consider outside influences.
• Lack of motivation and frustration. Remember that teams are composed of people, and regardless of
whatever roles they happen to be playing at a given time, people are subject to psychological ups and
downs. As members of workplace teams, they need motivation, and when motivation is low, so are
effectiveness and productivity. The difficulty of maintaining a high level of motivation is the chief cause
of frustration among members of teams. As such, it is also a chief cause of ineffective teamwork, and that
is one reason why more employers now look for the ability to develop and sustain motivation when they
are hiring new managers.
• Unwillingness to cooperate. Failure to cooperate can occur when members do not or would not commit
to a common goal or set of activities. What if, for example, half the members of a product development
team want to create a brand-new product and half want to improve an existing product? The entire
team may get stuck on this point of contention for weeks or even months. Lack of cooperation between
teams can also be problematic for an organization.
• Lack of managerial support. Every team requires organizational resources to achieve its goals, and if
management is not willing to commit the needed resources, e.g., funding or key personnel, a team will
probably fall short of those goals.
• Failure of managers to delegate authority. Team leaders are often chosen from the ranks of successful
supervisors; first-line managers who give instructions on a day-to-day basis and expect them to be carried
out. This approach to workplace activities may not work very well in leading a team, and the success of
this approach depends on building consensus and letting people make their own decisions.
Resolving Team Conflict
Team conflict is the breakdown of interpersonal relationships between members of a team. Common reasons
for team conflict include the following:
• Misunderstandings or poor communication skills
• Differing opinions, viewpoints, or personalities
• Biases and stereotypes
• Variations in learning and processing styles
• Perceptions of unfairness
38 | 1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM PERFORMANCE

[Page 71]
How to Deal with Conflict
Watch the YouTube video, “How to Deal with Conflict,” to gain a few tips on how to work through
a conflict with a team member.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=63#oembed-1
Transcript for “How to Deal with Conflict” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on
YouTube.
Source: Litmos Heroes. (2014, December 12). How to deal with conflict [Video]. YouTube.

1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM PERFORMANCE | 39

[Page 72]
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Julie Dupont
Julie Dupont
Julie Dupont is the Princip al Strategist at Reimagine Leadership . As an e xperienced facilitator, team builder,
and certified coach, Julie has been called upon to share her skills, knowledge, and experience in leadership and
team development locally and globally.
Certified in various team communication tools, she frequently facilitates team-building sessions to enhance
cohesion, teamwork and strategic go al achievement. She thoroughly enjo ys her w ork with clients of all sizes
and industries, and teams appreciate her ability to create space for meaningful conversations.
Julie prides herself on c reating engaging en vironments that make learning eas y and fun. Her p assion for
personal growth is demonstrated by her contagious enthusiasm and belief in the po wer of transforming lives
through authentic connections and courageous conversations.
“The keys to success, in business and in life, are emotional intelligence skills and excellent communication.
Get those skills right, and everything else becomes easier.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Julie Dupont. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
40 | 1.7: FACTORS AFFECTING TEAM PERFORMANCE

[Page 73]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
• Lifelong learning is the ongoing, voluntary, and self-motivated pursuit of knowledge for
either personal or professional reasons. Lifelong learning is a workplace necessity for most
employees.
• Employability skills are the skills you need to enter, stay in, and progress in the world of
work, whether you work on your own or as part of a team. Some of the most important
employability skills you will need are the ability to work well with others, be a productive
team member, and communicate well with others.
• The SQ4R reading system is designed to help you study your textbook and apply reading
and notetaking skills. The letters in SQ4R stand for five steps: survey, question, read, reflect,
recite, and review.
• Learning styles refer to the different methods of learning or understanding new
information, the way a person takes in, understands, expresses and remembers information.
There are four predominant learning styles: Visual, Auditory, Read/Write, and Kinaesthetic.
• Your GPA score (Grade Point Average) is a cumulation of the grades across the courses
throughout your program. To graduate, your institution will have a minimum GPA score you
must achieve, and should you wish to further your education in the future, your GPA score
may factor into whether or not you will be accepted for enrollment at specific colleges or
universities.
• Academic integrity is a commitment to acting with honesty, trust, fairness, respect, and
responsibility in academic work and studies.
• A citation style dictates the information necessary for a citation and how the information is
ordered, as well as punctuation and other formatting. Popular citation styles such as APA
and MLA provide guidelines to authors on how to format documents for professionalism, for
crediting other people’s words and ideas via citations and references to avoid plagiarism, and
for describing other people using inclusive, bias-free language.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 41

[Page 74]
• The book entitled “The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People,” written by Stephen R.
Covey, is based on Covey’s belief that the way we see the world is entirely based on our own
perceptions. In order to change a given situation, we must change ourselves, and in order to
change ourselves, we must be able to change our perceptions. The 7 Habits are: 1) Be
proactive, 2) Begin with the end in mind, 3) Put first things first, 4) Think win-win, 5) Seek
first to understand, then to be understood, 6) Synergize, and 7) Sharpen the saw.
• Time management is the practice of planning and controlling how you use your time to be
more productive and efficient. It involves prioritizing tasks, setting deadlines, and avoiding
distractions. The goal of time management is to complete important tasks on time while also
balancing your personal, professional, and academic responsibilities.
• Stress is a physical, mental, and emotional response to a difficult event. Stress management
offers a range of ways to help you better deal with stress and difficulty in your life.
• Students can gain work experience while studying through volunteering, internships, coop placements, freelance projects, experiential course projects, leadership opportunities,
participating in workshops and lab sessions, getting involved in student-run businesses or
start-ups, and utilizing online platforms to learn new skills.
• Business etiquette is a type of social and business behaviour that team members (whether
at school or work) are expected to exhibit. It includes how people communicate, dress, and
conduct themselves in meetings and social events.
• Professionalism is a broad concept that includes a person’s attitude, work ethic, and
conduct. It also involves being punctual, dressing appropriately, and having a positive
attitude. Business etiquette is a key component of professionalism.
• A team is a group of people with certain skills who share a common purpose, approach, and
performance goals. There are seven characteristics teams share: clear leadership, defined
goals, assigned roles, open communication, collaboration, trust, and conflict resolution.
• Task-facilitating roles help the team accomplish goals.
• Relationship-building roles help team members understand their roles, support them in
their roles, and maintain or improve group cohesiveness.
• Teams are a critical aspect of business. A team is a group of people with certain skills who
share a common purpose, approach, and performance goals.
• Team cohesion is the strength and extent of interpersonal connection existing among the
members of a group. It is this interpersonal bond that causes members to participate readily
and remain motivated to accomplish the set goals.
• Team skills needed for success include communication skills, technical skills, decisionmaking and problem-solving skills, and interpersonal skills.
42 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 75]
• Team conflict is the breakdown of interpersonal relationships between members of a team.
Common reasons for team conflict include misunderstandings or poor communication skills;
differing opinions, viewpoints, or personalities; biases and stereotypes; variations in learning
and processing styles; and perceptions of unfairness. Resolve conflicts by seeking to
understand the other person and moving toward win-win outcomes.
• Factors that erode team performance include groupthink, lack of motivation and
frustration, unwillingness to cooperate, lack of managerial support, and failure of managers
to delegate authority.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 1: Habits for Business Success and Teamwork [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Learning Style. What’s your learning style? Take this Learning Style Quiz to find out.
Which learning style was your dominant one? Were you surprised by the results? Discuss
with a partner and/or your professor how you will modify your methods for learning and
studying so that you incorporate your dominant learning style.
2. Employability Skills. Download the Conference Board of Canada Employability Skills
Toolkit. Do you have these skills? Which skills do you need to build? How will you do this?
Discuss with a partner and/or your professor.
3. Student Support. Research your institution’s student services and support. Can you locate
support for test taking? Can you locate support for math tutoring? Can you locate support
for the services you require to aid you in being successful in your studies? Discuss what you
learned with a partner and/or professor.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 43

[Page 76]
4. APA Formatting. Test your APA style knowledge. Complete one of these quizzes: APA Style
Quiz, PennState APA Quiz, St. Thomas APA Quiz, or NIC APA Quiz. Your professor may ask
you to share your results.
5. Academic Integrity. Search your college’s or university’s website and locate the Academic
Integrity (Academic Honesty) policy. What surprised you about the policy? Was there
information in the policy you were not aware of? Discuss the sanctions that may occur
should you be in breach of the academic integrity policy with a partner and/or your professor.
6. 7 Habits. Which of the “7 Habits of Highly Effective People” have you been practicing
recently? Share an example of each with a partner and/or your professor. Listen to the ways
in which others are putting these habits into action.
7. Mindfulness. Do you want to know how mindful you are? Take this Mindfulness Quiz to
find out. How can you build mindfulness into your daily routine? Discuss with a partner and/
or your professor what you discovered.
8. Time Management Skills. Visit the Skills You Need website and take this Quiz or the Brain
Manager website and take this Quiz to find out. Do you find you procrastinate? Do you find
you often run out of time? Maybe you are not managing your time as wisely as you should.
What did you learn from taking the quiz? How can you manage your time better in the
future to reduce stress and accomplish tasks by their due dates? Discuss this with a partner
and/or your professor.
9. Using a Calendar. Use Google Calendar, your school’s calendar, and your own personal
calendar to review each of your courses for assessment due dates. Record each of these
assessments in your calendar. Schedule study time in your calendar as well. If you work,
include work time in your calendar. Also, add appointments, events, and other obligations
you may have. Review the calendar one week at a time and determine which tasks you
need to prioritize and how much time you need to spend to complete each task. If you need
help with managing your time, contact a learning specialist at your institution. Show your
calendar to a partner and/or share your calendar with your professor or a learning strategist
at your school, and gather their feedback.
10. Business Etiquette. Observe others in your college or university. What bothers you about
the things other people do? Make a list and limit it to 10 items. Discuss the pet peeves you
and your classmates have with a partner, the class, or your professor. Then, try to determine
what you can do to improve your personal business etiquette. You may even want to create
a “classroom guidelines” list that all students in the class will follow to ensure professional
behaviour and good business etiquette.
11. Team Building Exercise. Conduct an Internet search to locate team-building exercises.
44 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 77]
Locate one you think you could do with a team of four peers. Form a team, or your professor
might assign teams. Try the exercise. As a team, pair up with another team and guide them
through your team-building exercise, then let them guide you through theirs. Did you have
fun? What did you learn? Share your experience with your class and/or professor.
12. Team Player Quiz. What type of team player are you? Try taking this Quiz to find out.
Review the results to determine how your team player style can better interact with other
styles when working on teams. Share your findings with your team and/or professor.
13. Team Player Job Interview Questions. Review this Indeed article about how to answer
team player questions during a job interview. Partner with a peer and practice asking each
other some of these questions; it’s good practice for when the day comes that you will be in
a real job interview.
14. Personal SWOT Analysis. SWOT stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and
threats. Download this Personal SWOT analysis worksheet [PDF] and complete it as you
consider your teamwork skills. Do you think there will be opportunities for personal growth
through working on a team? With a partner, discuss your SWOT analysis and theirs. Make
suggestions to each other on how you might overcome some threats and how you might
take advantage of opportunities when working in teams.
15. Teamwork Example. Search the Internet and locate examples of how various organizations
get work done in teams. What did you find? Pick one specific company and share your
findings with your class and/or professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Teams Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
CHAPTER REVIEW | 45

[Page 78]
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=65#h5p-3
Self-Check Exercise: The 7 Habits of Highly Effective
People (Flash Cards)
To complete this exercise, you may need to do a little research on The 7 Habits of Highly Effective
People:
1. Be proactive. Control your environment rather than have it control you.
2. Begin with the end in mind. Envision the desired outcome and concentrate on activities that
help in achieving it.
3. Put first things first. Manage time and effort so that the required tasks are prioritized.
4. Think win-win. Co-operative effort, so there are no losers.
5. Seek first to understand, then to be understood. Listen to others first, let them know they
have been heard before you speak.
6. Synergize. People cooperating can often achieve more than one person could alone.
7. Sharpen the saw. Take time to think, learn, and analyze.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=65#h5p-4
46 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 79]
Additional Resources
• Mindfulness at Work – How to be Mindful At Work Tips. YouTube Video.
• What is Mindfulness? YouTube Video.
• 16 Business Etiquette Tips for Every Working Professional
• GPA Calculator
• How to Convert Your GPA to a 4.0 Scale
• Test Taking Tips
• Cornell Note Taking Method
• The 20 Business Leaders Who Changed the World for the Better
• Zotero. Collect, organize, annotate, cite and share research.
• How Professional Are You? (Quiz)
• Personal SWOT Analysis Quick Guide
• Successful Student Team Projects
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 47

[Page 80]
48 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 81]
CHAPTER 2: BUSINESS CONCEPTS
CHAPTER 2: BUSINESS CONCEPTS | 49

[Page 82]
50 | CHAPTER 2: BUSINESS CONCEPTS

[Page 83]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter aims to pro vide a c omprehensive o verview of fundamental business c oncepts and the
environment in which businesses operate.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Explain the role played by the government in Canadian business.
2. Distinguish between for-profit and not-for-profit organizations.
3. Explain the economic benefits derived when businesses earn profits.
4. Describe current trends in consumer behaviour and the business community’s response to
those trends.
5. Describe the public, private, and non-profit business sectors and distinguish between the
manufacturing and service industries.
6. Identify stakeholders relevant to an organization.
7. Describe functional areas of business.
8. Describe the factors of production.
9. Differentiate between the internal, micro, and macro business environments.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 51

[Page 84]
2.1: THE ROLE OF THE GOVERNMENT IN
CANADIAN BUSINESS
Canada’s system of go vernment is b ased on the British p arliamentary model and is quite distinct from the
presidential s ystem operating in the Unite d States. Canada ’s legislativ e and e xecutive jurisdiction is
constitutionally divided between the federal government and the ten provincial governments. A business may
be regulated at three levels: federal, provincial, and municipal. A business ma y also be affected by the policies
and decisions of regulatory and administrative bodies and tribunals.
The government influences business activity through the roles it plays. Some of these include the following:
• The government becomes a regulator when it controls many aspects of business activity through
administrative boards, tribunals, and commissions. Regulations promote competition between
businesses, protect consumers, achieve social goals, and protect the environment. For example, the
Canadian Food Inspection Agency regulates dairy, egg, fish, and other food products.
• The government becomes a provider of incentives when it offers programs that help stimulate economic
development. For example, the government offers funding for waste diversion initiatives, rebates for
solar heating installations, and in some provinces, tax credits for employers who hire university and
college students enrolled in co-operative education programs.
• The government becomes a provider of essential services when it supplies services that create stability
and encourage business activity, such as law enforcement (police) and health care (hospitals).
• The government becomes a taxation agent when taxes are imposed and collected by the three levels of
government. For example, the federal government collects income tax through the Canada Revenue
Agency (CRA), the provincial government collects sales tax and receives a share of income tax, and the
municipal government collects property tax.
• The government becomes a customer when it buys from businesses. The Government of Canada buys
many kinds of products and services, from aircraft to paper clips, from training services to scientific
research.1
• Government becomes a competitor when it competes with businesses through its Crown corporations,
such as Canada Post, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC), SaskTel, SaskEnergy, BC Hydro,
and the Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO).
1. Government of Canada. (2023, December 7). What the government buys.
52 | 2.1: THE ROLE OF THE GOVERNMENT IN CANADIAN BUSINESS

[Page 85]
2.2: DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN FOR-PROFIT
AND NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
For-Profit Organizations
Take a moment to think about the many different types of businesses you come into contact with on a typical
day. As you drive to class, y ou may stop at a gas station that is p art of a ma jor national oil c ompany and grab
lunch from a f ast food chain such as T aco Bell, M cDonald’s, or the neighbourhood pizza p lace. Need more
cash? You can do y our banking on a smartp hone or another devic e via mobile apps. Y ou don’t ev en have to
visit the store an ymore—online shopping brings the stores to y ou, offering everything from clothes to f ood,
furniture, and concert tickets.
A business is an organization that striv es f or a profit b y pro viding goods and servic es desire d b y its
customers. Businesses me et the ne eds of c onsumers by pro viding me dical c are, automobiles, and c ountless
other goods and services. Goods are tangible items manufactured by businesses, such as laptops. Services are
intangible offerings of businesses that c an’t be held, touche d, or store d. Physicians, lawyers, hairstylists, c ar
washes, and airlines all pro vide services. Businesses also serv e other organizations, such as hospitals, retailers,
and governments, by providing machinery, goods for resale, computers, and thousands of other items.
Revenue is the money a c ompany receives by providing services or selling goods to customers. Costs are
expenses including rent, salaries, supp lies, transportation, and man y other e xpenses a c ompany incurs from
creating and selling goods and servic es. For example, some of the c osts Microsoft incurred by developing its
software include salaries, f acilities, and adv ertising. If Mic rosoft has money left o ver after it p ays all c osts, it
has a profit. A c ompany with c osts greater than rev enues incurs a loss. When a c ompany such as Mic rosoft
uses its resources intelligently, it can often increase sales, hold costs down, and earn a profit. Not all companies
earn profits, but that is the risk of being in business. Risk is the potential to lose time and money or otherwise
not be ab le to ac complish an organization’s go als. F or e xample, the Canadian Re d Cross f aces the risk of
not me eting the demand f or victims of disaster (p atients who ne ed b lood) if there are not enough b lood
donors. Businesses such as Microsoft face the risk of falling short of their revenue and profit goals. In Canadian
business today, there is generally a direct relationship between risks and profit—the greater the risks, the greater
the potential for profit (or loss).
The owner or shareho lders of a business are not the only pe ople who benefit from the business ’s earned
profits. A successful business provides employment opportunities, goods and servic es people need and want,
tax payments to the government, and spends money buying resources, which stimulates the economy. Socially
2.2: DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN FOR-PROFIT AND NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS | 53

[Page 86]
responsible firms c ontribute even more b y adopting po licies that promote the w ell-being of society and the
environment while lessening the negative impacts on them.
Not-for-Profit Organizations
Not every organization that generates rev enue and p ays expenses is c onsidered a f or-profit business. Not all
organizations strive to make a profit. A not-for-profit organization is an organization that e xists to achieve
some goal other than the usual business goal of profit at all costs. Often, these organizations serve communities
through social, e ducational, or po litical means. Organizations such as univ ersities and c olleges, hospitals,
environmental groups, and charities are not-for-profit organizations. Charities such as Habitat for Humanity,
the United Way, the Canadian Cancer Society, and the World Wildlife Fund are not-for-profit organizations, as
are most hospitals, zoos, arts organizations, civic groups, and religious organizations.1
Over the last 20 years, the
number of not-for-profit organizations—and the employees and volunteers who work for them—has increased
considerably. Government is our largest and most pervasive not-for-profit group.
Like their for-profit counterparts, these groups set goals and require resources to meet those goals. However,
their goals are not focused solely on profits. For example, a not-for-profit organization’s goal might be feeding
the poor, preserving the en vironment, increasing attendance at the b allet, or preventing drunk driving. Notfor-profit organizations do not c ompete directly with one another in the same manner as, f or example, Ford
and Honda, but they do compete for talented employees, people’s limited volunteer time, and donations.
The boundaries that formerly separated not-for-profit and for-profit organizations have blurred, leading to a
greater exchange of ideas between the sectors as for-profit businesses are now addressing social issues. Successful
not-for-profits apply business princip les to operate more eff ectively. Not-for-profit managers are c oncerned
with the same c oncepts as their c olleagues in f or-profit c ompanies. These c oncerns include dev eloping a
strategy, budgeting c arefully, measuring perf ormance, enc ouraging inno vation, impro ving productivity ,
demonstrating accountability, and fostering an ethical workplace environment.
In addition to pursuing a museum’s artistic go als, for example, top e xecutives manage the administrativ e
and business side of the organization, which can include human resources, finance, and legal concerns. Ticket
revenues cover a fraction of the museum’s operating c osts, so the dire ctor spends a great deal of time se eking
major donations and memberships. Today’s museum boards of directors include both art patrons and business
executives who w ant to se e sound fisc al de cision-making in a not-f or-profit setting. Theref ore, a museum
director must walk a fine line between the institution’s artistic mission and financial policies.
1. Government of Canada. (2016, June 23). What is the difference between a registered charity and a non-profit organization?
54 | 2.2: DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN FOR-PROFIT AND NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 87]
2.3: ECONOMIC BENEFITS WHEN
BUSINESSES EARN PROFITS
Standard of Living
Successful businesses help to raise a country’s standard of living because they create the goods and services that
are the basis of our standard of living. The standard of living of any country is measure d by the output of
goods and services people can buy with the money they have. It’s the ease with which people living in a time or
place are able to satisfy their needs and wants. It is generally measured by standards such as income per person
and poverty rate. Other measures are also use d, such as ac cess to and quality of health c are, income-growth
inequity, availability of emp loyment, environmental quality, and e ducational standards. One measure of the
standard of living is the Human Dev elopment Index (HDI), which w as developed by the Unite d Nations.
Canada was ranked #18 out of 193 countries and territories worldwide on the 2023/2024 HDI report (Refer
to Table 2.1).1
1. UNDP. (n.d.). Human development reports.
2.3: ECONOMIC BENEFITS WHEN BUSINESSES EARN PROFITS | 55

[Page 88]
Table 2.1: Ranking — Human Development Index 2023/
Country Rank
Switzerland 1
Norway 2
Hong Kong 4
Germany 7
Finland 12
United Kingdom 15
Canada 18
United States 20
China 75
India 134
Pakistan 164
Yemen 186
Somalia 193
Quality of Life
Businesses play a key ro le in determining our quality of lif e by providing jobs, goods, and servic es to society.
Quality of lif e refers to the general lev el of human happiness b ased on f actors including lif e e xpectancy,
educational standards, health, sanitation, and leisure time. It takes into account not only the material standard
of living, but also more intangible aspects that make up human life. Building a high quality of life is a combined
effort between businesses, government, and not-for-profit organizations. In a Mercer Insights report for 2023,
Vienna, Austria, ranked highest in quality of lif e, followed by Zurich, Switzerland; Auckland, New Zealand;
and Copenhagen, Denmark. It ma y come as a surprise that not one of the w orld’s top cities is in the Unite d
States: seven of the top 10 loc ations are in w estern Europe, two are in Australia/New Zealand, and one is in
Canada (#8 on the list). At the other end of the scale, Baghdad, Iraq, is the city scoring the lowest on the annual
survey.2
2. Mercer. (2023). Quality of livi ng city rankings 2023. Retrieved November 1, 2024, from https:// www.mercer.com/en-ca/insights/total-rewards/
talent-mobility-insights/quality-of-living-city-ranking/
56 | 2.3: ECONOMIC BENEFITS WHEN BUSINESSES EARN PROFITS

[Page 89]
2.4: BUSINESS SECTORS AND INDUSTRIES
Businesses are often categorized into specific groupings called sectors, which can be based on business activities,
how profits are managed, or the industry in which the business operates.
The Public Business Sector
The public se ctor includes goods and servic es produc ed, deliv ered, and alloc ated b y the go vernment and
public se ctor organizations (pub licly c ontrolled business enterprises). The go vernment se ctor includes all
federal, provincial, municipal, and territorial go vernment ministries and dep artments. It also includes pub lic
school boards, public universities and colleges, and public health and social servic e institutions. Public sector
organizations operate in the marketp lace, often in c ompetition with priv ately o wned organizations. The
government may have direct or indirect control over public sector organizations, which are also ref erred to as
Crown corporations. The aim of the public sector is to provide services that benefit the public as a whole, either
because it would be difficult to charge people for the goods and services concerned or because people may not
be able to afford them. The government can provide these goods and services at a lower price than if they were
provided by a for-profit company. Examples include public utilities, such as water and sewage, electricity, and
gas, as well as nationalized industries such as coal and steel.
The Private Business Sector
The private sector includes goods and servic es produced and delivered by private individuals or groups as a
means of enterprise for profit. The sector is not controlled by the government. These businesses can be small
firms owned by just one person or large multinational businesses that operate glob ally. Large businesses ma y
have many owners. A public (or publicly traded) company within the private business sector is not part of the
public sector (government-provided services and go vernment owned organizations); it is a p articular kind of
private sector company that can offer its shares for sale to the general public (i.e., Microsoft, Apple, Proctor &
Gamble).
The Non-Profit or Voluntary Sector
The non-profit or v oluntary se ctor includes non-go vernmental, non-profit organizations that re ceive
support from individual citizens, go vernment, and businesses. Non-profit organizations (NPOs) are also
2.4: BUSINESS SECTORS AND INDUSTRIES | 57

[Page 90]
referred to as priv ate voluntary organizations (PV Os), not-for-profit organizations (NFPOs), or non-profit
making, non-governmental organizations (NGOs). In the global business world, there is inconsistency in how
these terms are defined. A non-profit organization could be a not-for-profit corporation or an unincorporated
association. A not-f or-profit corporation is usually c reated with a spe cific purpose in mind and c ould be
a f oundation, charity, or other type of non-profit organization. A priv ate v oluntary association is a group
of v olunteers who enter into an agre ement to f orm an organize d body to ac complish a purpose. F or the
purposes of this boo k, not-f or-profit corporations, priv ate v oluntary organizations, and non-go vernmental
organizations are classified in the non-profit and voluntary sector as non-profit organizations.
Non-profit organizations have the ability to respond to issues more quickly than the go vernment and are
usually formed or e xpanded in reaction to a c ommunity need that is not being met b y the go vernment. The
Canadian government recognizes the importance of the non-profit sector as a key partner in building a stronger
Canada, and it supports the sector in a number of ways, such as partnering, streamlining funding practices and
accountability, and developing knowledge about the non-profit sector.1
Non-profit organizations operate in a v ariety of areas, including sports, religion, arts, culture, fundraising,
and housing. Various organizations include hospitals, universities and colleges, research organizations, business
and professional associations, and unions. Non-profit organizations e xperience problems with p lanning for
the future, recruiting the types of volunteers needed, and obtaining board members and funding. People who
work in non-profit organizations may be paid employees or unpaid volunteers.
There can be confusion around which sector a business is in. Is a hospital in the public or private sector? Are
all hospitals non-profit organizations? Is a priv ate sector university a non-profit or a f or-profit organization?
This confusion exists because some types of organizations typic ally thought of as belonging to the non-profit
sector can cross sectors. Public sector hospitals are owned by the government and receive government funding.
Most hospitals ac ross Canada are pub licly funde d organizations, although they also raise additional funds
through donations. Private sector hospitals are privately owned, often by a for-profit company or a non-profit
organization, and are funded through patient payments, insurers, grants, and donations. Private hospitals and
health care clinics are classifie d as being in either the priv ate, for-profit or private, non-profit sectors and are
quite common in the United States and Australia.
Similarly, Canada has priv ate sector, for-profit and private sector, and non-profit c olleges and univ ersities
in addition to its man y public, non-profit c olleges and univ ersities. Private colleges and univ ersities are not
operated by the go vernment, although man y have received public subsidies, and depending on the pro vince
in which they are based, they may be subject to government regulations. Some of the w orld’s most renowned
universities, such as Harv ard Univ ersity, Stanf ord Univ ersity, and M assachusetts Institute of T echnology
(MIT), are private sector, non-profit universities.
1. Government of Canada. (2022, No vember 22). The government of Canada announces that national funders have been selected to support charities
and non-profits.
58 | 2.4: BUSINESS SECTORS AND INDUSTRIES

[Page 91]
Business Industries
Across the thre e se ctors, businesses ma y be classifie d b y industry, such as servic e-producing industries and
goods-producing industries, using the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).
Goods-Producing Industries
• Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting
• Mining, oil and gas extraction
• Utilities
• Construction
• Manufacturing
Service-Producing Industries
• Wholesale trade
• Retail trade
• Transportation and warehousing
• Information and cultural industries
• Finance and insurance
• Real estate, rental and leasing
• Professional, scientific, and technical services
• Management of companies
• Administrative and support, waste management, and remediation services
• Educational services
• Health care and social assistance
• Arts, entertainment, and recreation
• Accommodation and food services
• Other services, except public administration
• Public administration
2.4: BUSINESS SECTORS AND INDUSTRIES | 59

[Page 92]
2.5: BUSINESS PARTICIPANTS AND
STAKEHOLDERS
Participants
Business participants are the people who participate in conducting the work of the business. These alw ays
include the employees and managers, but often include suppliers, customers, and shareholders. Every business
must have one or more owners whose primary role is to invest money in the business. When a business is being
started, it is generally the o wners who po lish the business idea and bring together the resourc es (money and
people) needed to turn the idea into a business. The o wners also hire employees to work for the company and
help it reach its goals. Owners and employees depend on a third group of participants— customers. Ultimately,
the goal of any business is to satisfy the needs of its customers in order to generate a profit for the owners. Other
participants can include suppliers and even competitors.
Stakeholders
Stakeholders are those aff ected b y the business ’s operations and its de cisions. Ex amples of stakeho lders
include shareho lders, in vestors, supp liers, the c ommunity, customers, emp loyees, c ompetitors, and
governmental agencies. Consider your favourite restaurant. It may be an outlet or franchise of a national chain
(more on franchises in a later chapter) or a loc al “mom and pop shop” without affiliation to a larger entity .
Whether national or loc al, every business has stakeho lders — those with a legitimate interest in the suc cess
or f ailure of the business and the po licies it adopts. Stakeho lders include customers, v endors, emp loyees,
suppliers, landlords, competitors, bankers, and others (see Figure 2.1). Other stakeholders include the general
public, the environment and all the various government departments that impact the business. All have a keen
interest in ho w the business operates, f or obvious reasons in most c ases. If the business f ails, employees will
need new jobs, v endors will ne ed new customers, and b anks ma y have to write off lo ans they made to the
business. Stakeholders do not alw ays see things the same w ay — their interests sometimes c onflict with each
other. For example, lenders are more likely to appre ciate high profit margins that ensure the lo ans they make
will be repaid, while customers would probably appreciate the lowest possible prices. Pleasing stakeholders can
be a real balancing act for any company.
60 | 2.5: BUSINESS PARTICIPANTS AND STAKEHOLDERS

[Page 93]
Figure 2.1: Common business stakeholders include the environment, service users, policy makers, the public,
managers, customers, the government, shareholders, funders, employees, suppliers, and owners. [See
image description.]
Media Attributions
“Figure 2.1: Common business stakeholders include the environment, service users, policy makers, the public,
managers, customers, the go vernment, shareho lders, funders, emp loyees, supp liers, and o wners” is reuse d
from Business Stakeholders,

2.5: BUSINESS PARTICIPANTS AND STAKEHOLDERS | 61

[Page 94]
Image Descriptions
Figure 2.1
Nine circles of v arying c olours and diameters labelle d with diff erent business stakeho lders. The circles are
arranged clockwise in the f ollowing order: o wners, emp loyees, shareho lders, customers, po licy makers,
managers, and service users. The two circles in the middle are for funders and suppliers.
[back to figure]
62 | 2.5: BUSINESS PARTICIPANTS AND STAKEHOLDERS

[Page 95]
2.6: FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF BUSINESS
Functional areas in a business refer to different departments or se ctions that perf orm specific tasks, such
as human resources, operations, accounting, and finance. Each functional area has a unique ro le in achieving
the overall business obje ctives, and they ne ed to w ork in c ooperation to ensure that the c ompany operates
smoothly and eff ectively. Depending on who y ou ask, y ou ma y re ceive different answ ers about ho w many
functional areas there are in a business. It really depends on ho w the business is structure d (more on this
later). Some people will say there are four functional areas, some say five, some say six or even seven. Examples
of functional areas include human resourc es, operations, marketing, ac counting, financ e, inf ormation
technology, strategy , leadership , team, marketing and sales, production and operations, research and
development, insurance and risk management, and so on.
Let us briefly explore each of the six functional areas listed below (shown in Figure 2.2). When we look at the
functional area of business, we organize the work according to the type of work. In small businesses, the owner
may perform the financ e, accounting, and human resourc e functions along with o verseeing the operations.
In large businesses, these functions are often bro ken down into departments that have large groups of pe ople
working within each function.
Figure 2.2: Six functional areas of business — human resources, operations, marketing,
accounting, finance, and technology.
2.6: FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF BUSINESS | 63

[Page 96]
Human Resources
The Human Resour ces (HR ) functional area is an organizational function that is about searching f or,
selecting, training, and maintaining workers. HR managers are responsib le for ensuring that the organization
has all of the skills and c apabilities necessary to run the business. HR managers dev elop staffing plans, recruit
and select new emp loyees, monitor the perf ormance management proc ess, and dev elop succession plans for
advancement and rep lacement. They dev elop standards f or compensation and benefits and assist managers
with staff issues.
Operations
Operations is the organizational function that is f ocused on producing the goods and/or servic es of the
business. Operations involve managing the processes and resources that create goods and services in a business.
It is responsible for ensuring efficiency, quality, and cost-effectiveness in production, distribution, and delivery
to me et customer demand and achiev e organizational obje ctives. All c ompanies must c onvert resourc es
(labour, materials, money, information, and so forth) into goods or servic es. Some companies, such as Apple,
convert resources into tangib le products — iP ads, iPhones, etc. Others, such as hospitals, c onvert resources
into intangib le products, e.g., health c are. The person who designs and o versees the transf ormation of
resources into goods or services is called an operations manager. This individual is also responsible for ensuring
that products are of high quality . In man y organizations, operations management includes managing the
supply chain, which controls the delivery of raw materials and the distribution of finished goods.
Marketing
Marketing plays a crucial role in a business by helping to identify, create, and satisfy customer needs and wants
through the promotion of products or services. Effective marketing strategies can help businesses differentiate
themselves from c ompetitors, build brand a wareness and lo yalty, increase sales and rev enue, and ultimately ,
achieve their business go als. M arketing c onsists of ev erything that a c ompany does to identify customers ’
needs (i.e., market research and consumer analysis) and ensure that products are designed to meet those needs.
Marketers develop the benefits and features of products, including pric e and quality. They also decide on the
best method of deliv ering products and the best means of promoting them to attract and ke ep customers.
They manage relationships with customers and make customers a ware of the organization’s desire and ability
to satisfy their needs.
64 | 2.6: FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF BUSINESS

[Page 97]
Accounting
Accounting is the organizational function that is f ocused on re cording, ke eping, analyzing and
communicating financial inf ormation. M anagers ne ed ac curate, relev ant and timely financial inf ormation,
which is pro vided b y ac countants. Ac countants measure, summarize, and c ommunicate financial and
managerial information and advise other managers on financial matters. There are tw o fields of ac counting.
Financial accountants prepare financial statements to help users, both inside and outside the organization,
assess the financial strength of the c ompany. Managerial accountants prepare information, such as reports on
the cost of materials used in the production process, for internal use only.
Finance
The financial functional area of a business is responsib le f or managing the c ompany’s financial resourc es,
including budgeting, ac counting, financial reporting, c ash flow management, and in vestment de cisions. Its
role is to ensure the financial stability and gro wth of the organization b y optimizing financial perf ormance
and minimizing risks. Financ e in volves p lanning f or, obtaining, and managing a c ompany’s funds while
maintaining the financial health of the business.
A financial manager addresses such questions as:
• How much money does the company need?
• How and where will it get the necessary money?
• How and when will it pay the money back?
• What investments should be made in the company’s plant and equipment?
• How much should be spent on research and development?
• Good financial management is particularly important when a company is first formed because new
business owners usually need to borrow money to get started.
Information Technology
Information technology is the organizational function that aims to understand the inf ormation and data
needs of the c ompany in terms of obtaining, analyzing, and prote cting information. Information is one of
the critical assets of most businesses. Businesses such as F acebook are entirely inf ormation-based businesses.
Information technology (IT) managers are c oncerned with building c omputer and netw ork infrastructure,
implementing security and privacy protocols, and developing user interfaces and apps for customers. Usually,
there is a high level of integration between the business’s website or application and other departments within
the business, such as financ e, marketing and operations. Often, businesses must dev elop interfaces to send
2.6: FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF BUSINESS | 65

[Page 98]
and receive information from other companies, including suppliers, and logistics and shipping providers. The
global pandemic has also made it ne cessary for businesses to estab lish and improve their virtual presenc es. As
the use of technology increases, so do the number of threats and vulnerabilities. The number of potential risks
involved in using information technology is rising, creating a security gap between the expectations of users and
the ability of technology suppliers to meet those expectations. Data privacy concerns, protection and security
now play an important role. Cybersecurity is changing the way things are done today more than ever before.
Media Attributions
“Figure 2.2: Six Functional areas of business: human resourc es, operations, marketing, ac counting, finance,
and technology” is adapted from Chapter 2: Business Concepts and Teamwork in Business Fundamentals, 1st
Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
66 | 2.6: FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF BUSINESS

[Page 99]
2.7: FACTORS OF PRODUCTION: THE
BUILDING BLOCKS OF BUSINESS
To provide goods and servic es, regardless of whether they operate in the f or-profit or not-f or-profit sector,
organizations require inputs in the f orm of resourc es called factors of pr oduction. Four traditional f actors
of production are c ommon to all productiv e activity: natural resou rces, labour (hu man resou rces), capital,
and entrepreneurship. M any e xperts no w c onsider kno wledge to be the fifth f actor, ackno wledging its key
role in business suc cess (shown in Figure 2.3). By using the f actors of production efficiently, a c ompany can
produce more goods and services with the same resources.
Figure 2.3: The five factors of production — natural resources, human resources, capital,
entrepreneurs, and knowledge.
Natural Resources
Commodities that are useful inputs in their natural state are kno wn as natural resourc es, and these c an be
2.7: FACTORS OF PRODUCTION: THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF BUSINESS | 67

[Page 100]
either renewable or non-renew able. Renewable natural resourc es are those that c an grow again or c an never
run out, and these include tre es, water, air, and sourc es of power like solar and wind energy. Non-renewable
natural resourc es are f ound in the ground, and there are limitations to their a vailability as they c annot be
replaced or renew ed. These include land, mineral and oil deposits. Sometimes natural resourc es are simp ly
called land, although the term means more than just land. Comp anies use natural resources in different ways.
The International Paper Company uses wood pulp to make p aper, and Pacific Gas & Electric Company may
use water, oil, or coal to produce electricity. Today, urban sprawl, pollution, and limited resources have raised
questions about resource use. Conservationists, environmentalists, and government bodies are proposing laws
to require land-use planning and resource conservation.
Human Resources
Labour, or human resourc es, refers to the e conomic contributions of pe ople working with their minds and
muscles. This input includes ev eryone’s talents, from a restaurant c ook to a nuclear p hysicist, who performs
the many tasks of manufacturing and selling goods and services.
Capital
The too ls, machinery, e quipment, and buildings use d to produc e goods and servic es and get them to the
consumer are kno wn as capital. Sometimes, the term capital is also use d to ref er to the money that buys
machinery, factories, and other production and distribution facilities. However, because money itself produces
nothing, it is not one of the b asic inputs. Instead, it is a means of ac quiring the inputs. Theref ore, in this
context, capital does not include money.
Entrepreneurs
Entrepreneurs are the pe ople who c ombine the inputs of natural resourc es, labour, and c apital to produc e
goods or servic es with the intention of making a profit or ac complishing a not-f or-profit goal. These pe ople
make the de cisions that set the c ourse for their businesses; they c reate products and production proc esses or
develop services. Because they are not guarante ed a profit in return f or their time and eff ort, they must be
risk-takers. Of course, if their companies succeed, the rewards may be great. Today, many individuals want to
start their own businesses. They are attracte d by the opportunity to be their o wn boss and reap the financial
rewards of a successful firm. Many start their first business from their dorm rooms, such as M ark Zuckerberg
of Facebook, or while living at home, so their c osts are almost zero . Entrepreneurs include pe ople such as
68 | 2.7: FACTORS OF PRODUCTION: THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF BUSINESS

[Page 101]
Amazon founder and chairman Jeff Bezos, who w as named the se cond richest person in the w orld in 2025. 1
Many thousands of individuals have started companies that, while remaining small, make a major contribution
to the economy.
Knowledge
A number of outstanding managers and note d ac ademics are beginning to emp hasize a fifth f actor of
production — kno wledge. Knowledge refers to the c ombined talents and skills of the w orkforce and has
become a primary driv er of e conomic gro wth. T oday’s c ompetitive en vironment p laces a premium on
knowledge and learning over physical resources.
Media Attributions
“Figure 2.3: The five factors of production — natural resources, human resources, capital, entrepreneurs, and
knowledge” is adapte d from Chapter 2: Business Conc epts and T eamwork in Business Fundamentals, 1st
Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
1. Forbes Staff. (2025, April 1). The Top Ten Richest People in the World (April 2025). Forbes Australia.
2.7: FACTORS OF PRODUCTION: THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF BUSINESS | 69

[Page 102]
2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS
Internal Environment
The internal business en vironment refers to the elements within the organization that influenc e its
operations and de cision-making. It enc ompasses factors like the c ompany’s culture, management practic es,
employees, and w ork proc esses. A manager should striv e to c reate a w ell-managed or positiv e w ork
environment within the organization. A w ell-managed internal en vironment has a signific ant ro le in
influencing the organization’s operations and ensuring suc cessful go al achiev ement. Some of the most
important parts of the internal environment include communicating purpose to stakeholders through creating
a mission statement (who w e are, what w e value), a vision statement (who w e want to be come), a strategy
to achieve the company mission and vision and setting go als and objectives to gauge the c ompany’s degree of
success.
These are the areas management has c ontrol over and can make changes to in response to strategic go als or
changes that occur, which impact the organization.
• Management
• Materials
• Machinery
• Money
• Employees
An internal business analysis is a business analysis conducted by management or by consultants to evaluate the
company’s strengths and weaknesses. Such analyses are often closely associated with the SWOT analysis, which
helps businesses identify the company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. An internal business
analysis is generally more c oncerned with the strengths and w eaknesses of a business, while its opportunities
and vulnerabilities fall more under the external business analysis. When studying strengths and weaknesses, it
is important to analyze them in light of their imp act on customers, since the customer’s view of the c ompany
is ultimately the one that matters most. A SW OT analysis c an be done on products, proc esses, companies,
people, and just about anything you are trying to improve.
An internal analysis enables a firm to determine what it can do to improve its internal capability to support
the o verall suc cess of the business. There are other internal analyses managers c an do to gauge ho w the
company is performing, some of these include proc ess mapping (to identify issues in proc esses), and NOISE,
70 | 2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS

[Page 103]
SOAR, or SCORE analyses as alternatives to SWOT analysis; skills inventory tracking to determine what skills
are missing or needed within the organization; succession planning to ensure employees are able to move into
positions where someone else has retired; Gap Analysis, Core Competencies Analysis, OCAT, VRIO Analysis,
Strategy E valuation, M cKinsey 7S Framew ork, etc. 1
You will learn more about ho w managers analyze the
business environment when you review the chapter on management.
Once complete, the organization should ha ve a clear idea of where it’s e xcelling, where it’s doing o kay, and
where its current deficits and gaps are. The analysis gives management the knowledge to leverage the company’s
strengths, expertise, and opportunities. It also enab les management to develop strategies that mitigate threats
and compensate for identified weaknesses and disadvantages.2
External Environment
Micro-external environment
The micro-environment may be defined as including groups and organizations that have a direct relationship
with the business. F or e xample, supp liers, distributors, c ompetitors, and e xternal customers deal with the
firm regularly and ha ve a dire ct interest in the activities of the c ompany because they are clearly aff ected by
its actions (ref er to Figure 2.4). It is important f or an y organization to monitor and analyze all elements
of the mic ro-environment. Porter’s Fiv e F orces model is use d f or a thorough analysis of the c ompetitive
environment. A c ommonly used method f or assessing supp liers is the Kraljic M atrix. A method often use d
when conducting consumer analysis is F errell’s 6W model. You will learn more about ho w managers analyze
the business environment when you review the chapter on management.

1. Blackmore, L. (2024, July 24). What is internal analysis? Cascade.
2. Blackmore, L. (2024, July 24). What is internal analysis? Cascade.
2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS | 71

[Page 104]
Figure 2.4: Diagram showing the relationship of internal, micro, and macro business
environments. [See image description.]
Macro-external environment
The macro-environment refers to the broader condition of an economy as opposed to specific markets. The
macro-environment can be affected by GDP, fiscal policy, monetary po licy, inflation, employment rates, and
consumer spending. The state of the macro environment affects business decisions on things such as spending,
borrowing, and in vesting. To what degre e is a business vulnerab le to mac roeconomic factors? It depends on
the extent to which a company is dependent on the health of the e conomy and external factors for its success.
If a c ompany is relying more on the e conomic health of the c ountry, then it will be more vulnerab le to
72 | 2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS

[Page 105]
macroeconomic changes. Banks, financial institutions, and c redit card companies are v ery good e xamples of
such businesses that are heavily reliant on the macroeconomic factors.3
The mac ro-environment analysis in volves brainstorming and a lot of research to initiate the proc ess. It
starts by creating a list of trends that w ould have positive and negativ e impacts on the business. The mac roenvironment c an be analyze d b y using the PEST , PESTLE or PESTEL analysis method. This ac ronym
represents external factors that affect the business, including po litical, economic, sociocultural, technological,
environmental, and legal factors (PESTEL). The business has little influence over the macro-environment. For
example, if the government enacts mandatory regulations on waste management, businesses must comply with
these regulations to remain open. As c onsumers and employees, we see some of these la ws and regulations in
action when it comes to safety warnings on products, foods, buildings, etc. Consumer trends and technological
innovations also impact company operations. For example, consumers put pressure on fast food restaurants to
offer healthier choices. Another example of external factors affecting business is when one company adopts new
technology to serve customers faster and more c onveniently, other businesses must adapt in order to remain
competitive. You will learn more about how managers analyze the business environment when you review the
chapter on management.
A PESTEL analysis f or Tim Hortons pro vides an o verview of the e xternal factors that c an impact Tim
Hortons’ business operations. Understanding these f actors helps the c ompany strategize and adapt to the
changing business environment.
PESTEL Analysis —Tim Hortons
Political Factors
• Government Stability: Canada is known for its stable political environment, which
provides a secure operating environment for businesses like Tim Hortons.
• Trade Agreements: The CUSMA (Canada-United States-Mexico Agreement) facilitates
easier trade between Canada, the US, and Mexico, benefiting Tim Hortons’ supply chain
and expansion plans.
3. Shaw, A. (n.d.). What is the macro environment? Definition and examples. Marketing Tutor.
2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS | 73

[Page 106]
Economic Factors
• Economic Growth: Canada’s economy is diverse and robust, with significant
contributions from various sectors, including services, which benefits Tim Hortons.
• Consumer Spending: Economic challenges such as inflation and rising costs can affect
consumer spending power, impacting sales at Tim Hortons.
Social Factors
• Cultural Trends: Canadians value convenience and quality in their food choices. Tim
Hortons’ menu caters to these preferences with a variety of quick-service options.
• Health Consciousness: Increasing health awareness among consumers is pushing Tim
Hortons to offer healthier menu options.
Technological Factors
• Digital Transformation: Tim Hortons has been investing in digital technologies such as
mobile ordering apps and loyalty programs to enhance customer experience.
• Automation: The use of automation in operations can improve efficiency and reduce
costs [5].
Environmental Factors
• Sustainability Initiatives: Tim Hortons is focusing on sustainable practices, such as
phasing out plastic straws and sourcing coffee beans responsibly.
• Consumer Demand: There is a growing demand for environmentally friendly products,
which Tim Hortons is addressing through various green initiatives.
Legal Factors
• Regulations: Compliance with Canadian food safety and labelling regulations is crucial
for Tim Hortons.
• Tariffs and Trade Policies: Changes in tariffs and trade policies can affect the cost of
imported ingredients and materials.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The PESTEL analysis for Tim Hortons was created with
the assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text based on user
74 | 2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS

[Page 107]
Steve Jobs, founder of Apple.
inputs. In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the content created
using Generative AI tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
The Apple World of Business
Why is Apple so successful?
In 1976, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak created their first computer, the Apple I. They invested a
mere $1,300 and set up business in Jobs’ garage. Three decades later, their business—Apple
Inc.—has become one of the world’s most influential and successful companies. Jobs and Wozniak
were successful entrepreneurs — people who take the risks and reap the rewards associated with
starting a new business enterprise.
Have you ever wondered why Apple
flourished while so many other young
companies failed? How did it grow from a
garage start-up to a company generating over
$394 billion in sales in 2022? How was it able to
transform itself from a nearly bankrupt firm to a
multinational corporation with locations all
around the world? You might conclude that it
was the company’s products, such as the Apple I
and II, the Macintosh, or its wildly popular iPod,
iPhone, and iPad. Alternatively, you could decide
that it was its dedicated employees,
management’s willingness to take calculated
risks, or just plain luck, that Apple simply was in
the right place at the right time.
Before you draw any conclusions about what made Apple what it is today and what will propel it
2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS | 75

[Page 108]
into a successful future, you might like to learn more about Steve Jobs, the company’s co-founder
and former CEO. Jobs was instrumental in the original design of the Apple I and, after being ousted
from his position with the company, returned to save the firm from destruction and lead it onto its
current path. Growing up, Jobs had an interest in computers. He attended lectures at HewlettPackard after school and worked for the company during the summer months. He took a job at
Atari after graduating from high school and saved his money to make a pilgrimage to India in
search of spiritual enlightenment. Following his India trip, he attended Steve Wozniak’s “Homebrew
Computer Club” meetings, where the idea for building a personal computer surfaced.4
“Many colleagues describe Jobs as a brilliant man who could be a great motivator and positively
charming. At the same time his drive for perfection was so strong that employees who did not
meet his demands [were] faced with blistering verbal attacks.”5 Not everyone at Apple appreciated
Jobs’ brilliance and ability to motivate. Nor did they all go along with his willingness to do whatever
it took to produce an innovative, attractive, high-quality product. So, at age thirty, Jobs found
himself ousted from Apple by John Sculley, whom Jobs himself had hired as president of the
company several years earlier. It seems that Sculley wanted to cut costs and thought it would be
easier to do so without Jobs around. Jobs sold $20 million of his stock and went on a two-month
vacation to figure out what he would do for the rest of his life. His solution was to start a new
personal computer company called NextStep. In 1993, he was invited back to Apple (a good thing,
because neither his new company nor Apple was doing well).
Steve Jobs was definitely not known for humility, but he was a visionary and had a right to be
proud of his accomplishments. Some have commented that “Apple’s most successful days occurred
with Steve Jobs at the helm.”6
Jobs did what many successful CEOs and managers do: he learned, adjusted, and
improvised. Perhaps the most important statement that can be made about him is this: he never
gave up on the company that once turned its back on him. So now you have the facts. What do
you think Apple’s success is due to? (a) its products, (b) its customers, (c) luck, (d) its willingness to
take risks, (e) Steve Jobs, or (f) some combination of these options. What impact has Apple had on
technological advances with its over 500 devices?
4. Angelelli, L. (1994). Steve Paul Jobs. Interactive Learning with a Digital Library in Computer Science.
5. Angelelli, L. (1994). Steve Paul Jobs. Interactive Learning with a Digital Library in Computer Science.
6. Farivar, C. (2006, June 2). 30 years of Apple: Assessing Apple’s impact. Macworld.
76 | 2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS

[Page 109]
Source: Adapted from the Saylor Foundation’s Exploring Business available under CC BY-NC-SA
license, and based on Testa, D.M. (2007). Apple, Inc.: An analysis of the firm’s tumultuous History, in
conjunction with the abounding future [Unpublished honours thesis]. Lehigh University.
Media Attributions
“Figure 2.4: Diagram sho wing the relationship of internal, mic ro, and mac ro business en vironments” is
adapted from Chapter 2: Business Conc epts and Teamwork in Business Fundamentals, 1st E dition, © Kerri
Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
“Steve Jobs 1955-2011” by Segagman on Flickr; CC BY 2.0 Generic.
Image Description
Figure 2.4
Small purple circle, which reads “The Comp any Internal Environment: Mission, Vision, Strategy, Resources,
Processes, Products and Services” is contained within the medium blue circle.
Medium b lue circle, which reads “Mic o-Environment: Pub lic, M arketing Interme diaries, Supp liers,
Customers, Competitors, Employees” is contained within the large yellow circle.
Large yellow circle reads “M acro-Environment: Political Factors, Economic Factors, Sociocultural Factors,
Technological Factors, Environmental Factors, and Legal Factors.
[back to figure]
2.8: THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTS | 77

[Page 110]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
• Government influences business activity through the roles it plays.
• A business is an organization that strives for a profit by providing goods and services
desired by its customers.
• Goods are tangible items manufactured by businesses, such as laptops.
• Services are intangible offerings of businesses that can’t be held, touched, or stored.
• Revenue is the money a company receives by providing services or selling goods to
customers.
• Costs are expenses, including rent, salaries, supplies, transportation, and many other
expenses a company incurs from creating and selling goods and services.
• If a company has money left over after it pays all costs, it has a profit.
• A company whose costs are greater than its revenues incurs a loss.
• Risk is the potential to lose time and money or otherwise not be able to accomplish an
organization’s goals.
• A not-for-profit organization is an organization that exists to achieve some goal other
than the usual business goal of profit at all costs.
• The standard of living of any country is measured by the output of goods and services
people can buy with the money they have.
• Quality of life refers to the general level of human happiness based on factors including life
expectancy, educational standards, health, sanitation, and leisure time.
• The public business sector includes goods and services produced, delivered, and allocated
by the government and public sector organizations (publicly controlled government business
enterprises).
• The private business sector includes goods and services produced and delivered by private
individuals or groups as a means of enterprise for profit.
• The non-profit or voluntary sector includes non-governmental, non-profit organizations
78 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 111]
that receive support from individual citizens, government, and businesses.
• Business participants are the people who participate in conducting the work of the
business.
• Stakeholders are those affected by a business’s operations and its decisions. Examples of
stakeholders include shareholders, investors, the community, customers, competitors, and
governmental agencies.
• Functional areas in a business refer to different departments or sections that perform
specific tasks, such as human resources, operations, accounting, and finance.
• The Human Resources (HR) functional area is an organizational function that is about
searching for, selecting, training, and maintaining workers.
• Operations is the organizational function that is focused on producing the goods and/or
services of the business.
• Marketing plays a crucial role in a business by helping to identify, create, and satisfy
customer needs and wants through the promotion of products or services.
• Accounting is the organizational function that is focused on recording, keeping, analyzing
and communicating financial information.
• The financial functional area of a business is responsible for managing the company’s
financial resources, including budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, cash flow
management, and investment decisions.
• Information technology is the organizational function that aims to understand the
information and data needs of the company in terms of obtaining, analyzing, and protecting
information. Information is one of the critical assets of most businesses.
• To provide goods and services, regardless of whether they operate in the for-profit or notfor-profit sector, organizations require inputs in the form of resources called factors of
production. Four traditional factors of production are common to all productive activity —
natural resources, labour (human resources), capital, and entrepreneurship. Many experts
now include knowledge as a fifth factor, acknowledging its key role in business success.
• The internal business environment refers to the elements within the organization that
influence its operations and decision-making.
• The micro-environment may be defined as including groups and organizations that have a
direct relationship with the business.
• The macro-environment refers to the broader conditions of an economy as opposed to
specific markets.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 79

[Page 112]
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 2: Business Concepts [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. Factors of Production. Consider all the factors of production — labour, natural resources,
capital, entrepreneurs, and knowledge. Is each of these resources a vital part of the school
you attend or the company you work for? Which factors do you believe are most important
to the goods and services provided by your organization? Why? Discuss with a partner and/
or your professor.
2. Fortune 500 Company. Search the Fortune 500 list (or other list as assigned by your
professor) of the largest companies in the world for a business you have either shopped with
or worked for. Learn about this company through the list and through the corporate website.
Does the company provide goods or services? How much revenue did the company generate
last year? How much of this revenue was profit? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
3. Government Role. Research how the government supports your college or university.
Which government regulations affect your institution? How does the government support
your institution? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
4. Not-for-Profit Organization. Pick one non-profit organization to research. How much
revenue did the organization make last year? What did they do with it since they do not
make a profit? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
5. Business Environments. Search the Fortune 500 list (or other list as assigned by your
professor) of the largest companies in the world for a business you have either shopped with
or worked for. Consider the internal and external business environments for this company.
Use the Internet to research specific answers to the following questions. What is one
internal environmental factor that is currently having a big impact on this organization?
80 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 113]
What is one micro-environment factor that is having a big impact on this organization?
What is one macro-environment factor that is having a big impact on this organization?
Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
6. Young Entrepreneurs. Conduct an Internet search to locate information about support for
young entrepreneurs. The Government and banks may have some programs/funding, start
there. Would you like to start a business? Why or why not? Share your findings with your
class and/or professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Business Concepts
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=92#h5p-5
Additional Resources
• What are the Functional Areas of Business?
• What are Stakeholders?
CHAPTER REVIEW | 81

[Page 114]
• Download a Free Internal Analysis Toolkit
• Business Fundamentals Every Professional Should Know
• Business Analytics: What it is and Why it is Important?
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
82 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 115]
CHAPTER 3: ECONOMICS AND
BANKING
CHAPTER 3: ECONOMICS AND BANKING | 83

[Page 116]
84 | CHAPTER 3: ECONOMICS AND BANKING

[Page 117]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter will pro vide y ou with a c omprehensive o verview of key e conomic princip les and the ro le of
banking in the global economy.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Describe how different economic systems control the factors of production through input
and output markets.
2. Describe the different types of global economic systems.
3. Identify the various degrees of competition in the Canadian economic system.
4. Describe the law of supply and demand and how the equilibrium price is determined.
5. Describe what occurs at each of the four stages of the business cycle.
6. Analyze several leading economic indicators to forecast future economic trends.
7. Summarize how the government uses both monetary and fiscal policies to stabilize the
economy as a result of business cycle fluctuations.
8. Explain the role of money as a medium of exchange, the finiteness of the supply of money,
and the role of the Bank of Canada in managing the supply of money.
9. Explain how the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund assist with international
trade.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 85

[Page 118]
3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS
WORK
To appre ciate how a business functions, w e ne ed to kno w something about the e conomic environment in
which it operates. We begin with a definition of e conomics and a discussion of the resourc es used to produce
goods and services.
A business’s success depends in part on the economic systems of the countries where it is located and where
it sells its products. A nation’s e conomic system is the c ombination of po licies, laws, and choic es made b y
its government to estab lish the s ystems that determine what goods and servic es are produc ed and ho w they
are allocated. Economics is the study of ho w individuals, businesses, go vernments and nations alloc ate their
limited resources to satisfy their unlimited wants and needs. It is how a society uses scarce resources to produce
and distribute goods and services. The resources of a person, a firm, or a nation are limite d, and in economics
this limitation is kno wn as scarcity. An e xample of sc arcity w ould be if f ood w as limite d throughout a
geographic region due to a drought or a harsh winter. Scarcity is one of the key concepts of economics. It means
that the demand for a good or service is greater than the availability of the good or service.
Hence, economics is the study of choices—what people, firms, or nations choose from among the available
resources. E very e conomy is c oncerned with what types and amounts of goods and servic es should be
produced, how they should be produc ed, and f or whom. These de cisions are made b y the marketp lace, the
government, or both.
Farmland in Canada—An Example of Scarcity
A great example of scarcity in Canada is the limited availability of good farmland. Despite Canada’s
vast size, only about 5% of the land is suitable for crop production.1 This scarcity of fertile land
1. Food Policy for Canada. (n.d.). Agricultural land protection. York University.
86 | 3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK

[Page 119]
means that farmers must make careful decisions about what crops to grow and how to use their
land most efficiently.
• Resource Allocation: Scarcity forces farmers to prioritize which crops to plant based on
factors like market demand, soil quality, and climate conditions.
• Economic Trade-offs: Farmers might have to choose between growing high-value crops
that require more resources or lower-value crops that are easier to cultivate.
• Impact on Prices: Limited farmland can lead to higher prices for agricultural products, as the
supply is constrained while demand remains high.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: Example 3.1 was created with the assistance of Microsoft
Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text based on user inputs. In accordance with the
current guidance from Creative Commons, the content created using Generative AI tools is shared
under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
Microeconomics is the study of individuals and business de cisions. Macroeconomicslooks at the de cisions
of countries and governments. These two branches of economics appear to be different, but in reality, they’re
interdependent and c omplement each other. Y ou prob ably kno w more about e conomics than y ou realize.
Every day, many news stories deal with e conomic matters—a union wins w age increases at General M otors,
the Bank of Canada lo wers interest rates, W all Street has a re cord day, the prime minister proposes a cut in
income taxes, consumer spending rises as the economy grows, or retail prices are on the rise, to mention just a
few examples.
Resources: Inputs and Outputs
The allocation of resourc es is c oncerned with the production, distribution and c onsumption of goods and
services. Resources are the inputs used to produce outputs.
Resources may include any or all of the following and their connections with one another:
• land and other natural resources
• labour (physical and mental)
• capital, including buildings and equipment
• entrepreneurship
• knowledge
3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK | 87

[Page 120]
Resources are c ombined to produc e goods and servic es. Land and natural resourc es provide the ne eded raw
materials. Labour transf orms raw materials into goods and servic es. Capital (e quipment, buildings, v ehicles,
cash, and so f orth) is ne eded f or the production proc ess. Entrepreneurship pro vides the skill, driv e, and
creativity ne eded to bring other resourc es together to produc e a good or servic e that c an be so ld in the
marketplace.
Because a business uses resourc es to produce things, we also call these resources factors of production. For
example, the factors of production used to produce a shirt would include the following:
• the land that the shirt factory sits on, the electricity used to run the plant, and the raw cotton from
which the shirts are made;
• the labourers who make the shirts;
• the factory and equipment used in the manufacturing process, as well as the money needed to operate
the factory; and
• the entrepreneurship skills and production knowledge used to coordinate the other resources to make
the shirts and distribute them to the marketplace.
Input and Output Markets
The circular flow mod el is simp ly a w ay of depicting ho w money circulates through the e conomy from
individuals to firms in the f orm of labour and buying goods and servic es. Then, from firms to individuals in
the form of wages and providing goods/services.2
Many of the factors of production are provided to businesses
by households. For example, households provide businesses with labour (as w orkers), land and buildings (as
landlords), and capital (as investors). In turn, businesses pay households for these resources by providing them
with inc ome, such as w ages, rent, and interest. The resourc es obtaine d from househo lds are then use d b y
businesses to produc e goods and servic es, which are so ld to pro vide businesses with rev enue. The rev enue
obtained by businesses is then use d to buy additional resourc es, and the c ycle continues. This is desc ribed in
Figure 3.1, “The Circular Flo w of Inputs and Outputs ”, which illustrates the dual ro les of househo lds and
businesses:
• Households not only provide factors of production (or resources) but also consume goods and services.
• Businesses not only buy resources but also produce and sell both goods and services.
2. Study.com. (n.d.). How do you explain the circular flow model?
88 | 3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK

[Page 121]
Figure 3.1: The circular flow of inputs and outputs. [See image description.]
The circular flow of inputs and outputs illustrates the dual roles of households and businesses. Households not
only provide factors of production (or resources) but also consume goods and services. Businesses not only buy
resources but also produce and sell both goods and services. Outputs include goods and services (or products).
Inputs include labour, capital, land, and entrepreneurship.
This v ersion of the circular flo w model is strippe d do wn to the essentials, but it has enough f eatures
to e xplain ho w the product and labour markets w ork in the e conomy. We c ould easily add details to this
basic model if w e w anted to introduc e more real-w orld elements, like financial markets, go vernments, and
interactions with the rest of the globe (imports and exports).
Productivity
Productivity refers to ho w efficiently goods and servic es are being produc ed. Productivity inc reases when
more output is produc ed with the same amount of inputs or when the same amount of output is produc ed
with fewer inputs.
3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK | 89

[Page 122]
Labour productivity is the most c ommon productivity measure—it’s define d as e conomic output (gross
domestic product, or GDP) per hour w orked. Labour productivity is typic ally the biggest determinant of
economic and w age gro wth in the long term. And o ver time, labour productivity and real w ages are
closely—though not exactly—linked. Labour productivity tends to rise with increases in technology.
Economists measure other types of productivity, too. Capital productivity is a measure of how well physical
capital, such as real estate, e quipment, and in ventory, is use d to generate output such as goods and servic es.
(Capital productivity and labour productivity are frequently considered together as an indicator of a country’s
overall standard of living.) T otal f actor productivity is the portion of gro wth in output not e xplained b y
growth in labour or capital. This type of productivity is sometimes called “innovation-led growth.”3
Your Role in the Canadian Economy
Curious about your role in the Canadian economy? Plug in a few facts about yourself and compare
them with national and regional data from across Canada. At the end, your profile, as well as your
place in the economy, will be revealed. Figure 3.2 shows a results page after taking the “Your Role
in the Canadian Economy” Quiz. Give it a try! You will see how you compare to other Canadians.
3. McKinsey & Company. (2024, May 16). What is productivity?
90 | 3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK

[Page 123]
Figure 3.2: Your role in the Canadian economy quiz. [See image description.]
Media Attributions
“Figure 3.1: The circular flo w of inputs and outputs ” is reused from Circular flow of inputs and outputs , ©
2022 by Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0.
“Figure 3.2: Your role in the Canadian economy quiz” © Bank of Canada, licensed under Terms of Use.
Image Descriptions
Figure 3.1
A circular diagram sho ws the re ciprocal relationship betw een businesses and househo lds in the e conomy. It
features two main se ctions: “Businesses ” on the left, depicte d by a b lack and white ic on of buildings, and
“Households” on the right, depicte d by a house. Under Businesses are liste d “Produce and sell products to
households” and “Buy inputs from households.” Under households are listed “Buy products from firms” and
“Provide inputs to firms.”. T wo orange arro ws depict the flo w of resourc es and money , one sho wing “Pay
3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK | 91

[Page 124]
revenues for outputs” from households to businesses, and another “Pay incomes for inputs” from businesses to
households. The caption on the top lists “Outputs” as “Goods” and “Services,” and the caption at the bottom
lists “Inputs” as “Labour,” “Capital,” “Land,” and “Entrepreneurship.”
[back to figure]
Figure 3.2
A screen capture of the “Y our Role in the Canadian E conomy” quiz, with a stylize d, cartoon-like character
with a blue body, black shirt, sunglasses, and vibrant blue and purple hair, standing within a large light purple
circular b ackground against a dark b lue b ackdrop. The character ho lds an Ontario flag. Surrounding the
character are thre e circular elements: one on the top right with the te xt “You are a student,” another on
the bottom right stating, “Y ou are living in Ontario ,” and a third on the left with an ic on of a document
above the te xt box. A re ctangular text box below this ic on states, “Your education, public health and pub lic
administration sector makes up 19% of Canada’s economy—that’s 361 billion dollars!”
[back to figure]
92 | 3.1: HOW BUSINESS AND ECONOMICS WORK

[Page 125]
3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS
Economists study the interactions between households and businesses and look at the ways in which the factors
of production are c ombined to produce the goods and servic es that people need. Basically, economists try to
answer three sets of questions:
• What goods and services should be produced to meet consumers’ needs? In what quantity? When?
• How should goods and services be produced? Who should produce them, and what resources, including
technology, should be combined to produce them?
• Who should receive the goods and services produced? How should they be allocated among consumers?
The answ ers to these questions depend on a c ountry’s e conomic s ystem — the means b y which a society
(households, businesses, and government) makes decisions about allocating resources to produce products and
about distributing those products. The degre e to which individuals and business o wners, as oppose d to the
government, enjoy freedom in making these decisions varies according to the type of economic system.
Generally speaking, e conomic systems can be divide d into tw o systems: planned systems and fre e market
systems (refer to Figure 3.3).

Figure 3.3: Economic Systems: Planned, free, and mixed. [See image description.]
Planned Systems
In a planned system, the government exerts control over the allocation and distribution of all or some goods
and services. The system with the highest level of government control is communism. In theory, a communist
economy is one in which the go vernment owns all or most enterprises. Central p lanning by the go vernment
3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS | 93

[Page 126]
dictates which goods or services are produced, how they are produced, and who will receive them. In practice,
pure communism is practically nonexistent today, and only a few countries (notably North Korea and Cuba)
operate under rigid, centrally planned economic systems.
Under socialism, industries that pro vide essential services, such as utilities, b anking, and health c are, may
be government-owned. Some businesses ma y also be o wned privately. Central p lanning allocates the goods
and services produced by government-run industries and tries to ensure that the resulting wealth is distributed
equally. In c ontrast, priv ately o wned c ompanies are operate d f or the purpose of making a profit f or their
owners. In general, w orkers in socialist e conomies work fewer hours, have longer vacations, and receive more
health c are, e ducation, and child-c are benefits than do w orkers in c apitalist e conomies. To offset the high
cost of public services, taxes are generally ste ep. Examples of countries that lean to ward a socialistic appro ach
include Venezuela, Sweden, and France.
Free Market System
The free mark et s ystem is an e conomic s ystem in which most businesses are o wned and operate d b y
individuals, also known as capitalism. In a free market economy, competition dictates how goods and services
will be alloc ated. Business is c onducted with more limite d go vernment in volvement, c oncentrated on
regulations that dictate ho w businesses are permitte d to operate. A key aspe ct of a fre e market s ystem is the
concept of private property rights, which means that business owners can expect to own their land, buildings,
machines, etc., and ke ep the ma jority of their profits, e xcept for taxes. The profit inc entive is a key driv er of
any free market system. The economies of the Unite d States and other c ountries, such as Jap an, are based on
capitalism. However, a purely c apitalistic e conomy is as rare as one that is purely c ommunist. Imagine if a
service such as police protection, one provided by the government in the United States, were instead allocated
based on market forces. The ability to pay would then become a key determinant of who received these services,
an outcome that few in American society would consider acceptable.
Mixed Market Economies
Though it is possib le to ha ve a pure c ommunist system, or a pure c apitalist (free market) s ystem, in reality
many economic systems are mixed market economies. A mixed market economy relies on both markets and
the government to allocate resources. In practice, most economies are mixed, leaning toward either free market
or socialist principles rather than being purely one or the other. Some previously c ommunist economies, such
as those of Eastern Europe and China, are becoming more mixed as they adopt more capitalistic characteristics
and convert businesses previously o wned by the go vernment to priv ate ownership through a proc ess called
privatization. By contrast, Venezuela is a country that has moved increasingly toward socialism, taking control
of industries such as oil and media through a process called nationalization.
94 | 3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS

[Page 127]
The Canadian Economic System
Like most c ountries, Canada f eatures a mix ed market s ystem much like its neighbour to the south; though
the Canadian and U.S. e conomic systems are primarily fre e market s ystems, the federal government controls
some basic services, such as the postal servic e and air traffic c ontrol. The Canadian e conomy also has some
characteristics of a socialist s ystem, such as pro viding social security retirement benefits to retire d workers or
free health care to its population.
Adam Smith espouse d the fre e market s ystem in his boo k The Wealth of Nati ons, pub lished in 1776.
According to Smith, c ompetition alone w ould ensure that c onsumers received the best products at the best
prices. In the kind of c ompetition he assume d, a seller who tries to charge more f or his product than other
sellers w ould not be ab le to find an y buy ers. A job-se eker who asks more than the going w age w on’t be
hired. Be cause the “in visible hand ” of c ompetition will make the market w ork effectively, there w on’t be
a ne ed to regulate pric es or w ages. Almost imme diately, ho wever, a tension dev eloped among fre e market
theorists between the principle of laissez-faire—leaving things alone — and government intervention. Today, it
is common for the Canadian government to intervene in the operation of the e conomic system. For example,
the government exerts influence on the food and pharmaceutical industries through Canada’s Food and Drug
Act and Regulations, which protect consumers by preventing unsafe or mislabeled products from reaching the
market.
To appreciate how businesses operate, we must first get an idea of how prices are set in competitive markets.
The next section, “Perfect Competition and Supply and Demand,” begins by describing how markets establish
prices in an environment of perfect competition.

Indigenous Entrepreneurship and Economic Leakage
Economic development through resource extraction is an important tool for the creation of ownsourced revenue. To achieve long-term economic sustainability, however, it must be supported by
community-appropriate business development. Various Indigenous communities authorize impact
and benefit agreements with multi-national resource extraction corporations, doing so with the
intention that the economic benefits will offset the resulting ethical and environmental
concessions. In reality, the agreements often leave the communities in a similar socio-economic
3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS | 95

[Page 128]
state before the resources were extracted, which is attributed to the phenomenon of economic
leakage. Business development for Indigenous populations, on the other hand, refers to the
strategic decision to produce and promote businesses for and within their own communities. Doing
so would not only recapture economic leakage but also provide additional revenue sources. Dr
Russell Evans, the professor of accounting at the University of Windsor, offers his insight into the
benefits of Indigenous entrepreneurship.
Watch the Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business video “Indigenous Entrepreneurship.”
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=104
Transcript of “Indigenous Entrepreneurship” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed caption available in video
player.
Source: “Indigenous Entrepreneurship” by University of Windsor, is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND
4.0, available in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business by Russell Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and
Maureen Sterling, licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license, except where otherwise noted.
Media Attributions
“Figure 3.3: Economic Systems: Planned, free, and mixed” is reused from The economic spectrum,
Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0.
Image Descriptions
Figure 3.3
The economic spectrum is represented as an outlined horizontal, double-headed arrow. The left side is labelled
“Pure Communism” in b lue, with North Korea beneath it, and the right side is labelle d “Pure Fre e Market
Capitalism in orange, with New Zealand beneath it. Inside the c entral section of the arro w is a heading in
bold labelle d “Mix ed E conomies” with a grey ed out heading on the left with the label “Socialism,” and a
96 | 3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS

[Page 129]
greyed out heading on the right labelle d “Libertarianism”. Dire ctly under the heading Mix ed Economies is
a smaller grey ed out heading labelle d “Centralism”. Lines with arro ws point do wnward from markers along
the spectrum to list e xample countries: “China” and “M orocco” fall under “Socialism,” while “Franc e” and
“Sweden” are aligned with “Centralism.” “United States” and “Japan” are positioned under “Libertarianism.”
[back to figure]
3.2: ECONOMIC SYSTEMS | 97

[Page 130]
3.3: DEGREES OF COMPETITION
In economic theory and the broader discussion of competition, the “types” or “degrees” of competition refer to
how firms compete in the market. These classifications focus on the market environment, not direct “business
competition” (strategies businesses use to compete).
The Canadian economy is founded on the principles of private enterprise: private property rights, freedom
of choice, profits and c ompetition. In a mixed economy, such as Canada, businesses make de cisions about
which goods to produc e or servic es to off er and ho w they are pric ed. Be cause there are man y businesses
making goods or pro viding services, customers c an choose from a wide arra y of products. The c ompetition
for sales among businesses is a vital p art of our e conomic system. Competition v aries within industries and
has a big influence on how companies operate. Porter’s Five Forces model can be used to identify and analyze
an industry’s c ompetitive forces. The five forces are: threat of new entrants, threat of substitutes, b argaining
power of buyers, bargaining power of suppliers, and rivalry among existing competitors.
As shown in Table 3.1 below, economists have identified four types of competition — perfect competition,
monopolistic competition, oligopoly, and monopoly.
Table 3.1: Four types of competition
Characteristics Perfect
Competition
Monopolistic
Competition Oligopoly Pure Monopoly
Number of Firms Very Many Many A Few One
Types of Products Homogeneous Differentiated Homogeneous or
Differentiated Homogeneous
Barriers to Entry or
Exit from Industry
No Substantial
Barriers Minor Barriers Considerable
Barriers
Extremely Great
Barriers
Examples Agriculture Retail Trade Banking Public Utilities
Perfect Competition
Perfect competition is a market structure characterize d by many buyers and sellers, homogene ous products,
and no single p articipant having market po wer. Perfect competition exists when there are man y consumers
buying a standardized product from numerous small businesses. Be cause no seller is big enough or influential
enough to affect the pric e, sellers and buy ers accept the going pric e. For example, when a c ommercial fisher
brings his fish to the local market, he has little control over the price he gets and must accept the going market
price.
98 | 3.3: DEGREES OF COMPETITION

[Page 131]
Supply and demand are c entral to the concept of perfect competition. In perfect competition, the price of
goods and services is determined entirely by the interaction of supply and demand. High competition ensures
that the supply curve (producers) and demand curve (consumers) interact freely without interference, such as
monopolistic pricing or government controls. Producers can only compete on efficiency since prices cannot be
manipulated, aligning the supply with the true demand.
Monopolistic Competition
In monopolistic competition, we still have many sellers (as we had under perfect competition). Now, however,
they do not sell identical products. Instead, they sell differentiated products—products that differ somewhat,
or are perceived to differ, even though they serve a similar purpose. Products can be differentiated in a number
of ways, including quality, style, convenience, location, and brand name. Some people prefer Coke over Pepsi,
even though the tw o products are quite similar. But what if there w as a substantial pric e difference between
the two? In that c ase, buyers could be persuade d to switch from one to the other. Thus, if Co ke has a big
promotional sale at a supermarket chain, some Pepsi drinkers might switch (at least temporarily).
How is product diff erentiation ac complished? Sometimes, it’s simp ly ge ographical; y ou prob ably buy
gasoline at the station closest to y our home, regardless of the brand. At other times, perc eived differences
between products are promote d by advertising designed to convince consumers that one product is diff erent
from and better than another. Regardless of customer lo yalty to a product, if its price goes too high, the seller
will lose business to a c ompetitor. Under monopo listic competition, therefore, companies have only limite d
control over price.
Oligopoly
Oligopoly means a few sellers. In an oligopolistic market, each seller supplies a large portion of all the products
sold in the marketplace. In addition, because the cost of starting a business in an oligopolistic industry is usually
high, the number of firms entering it is lo w. Companies in o ligopolistic industries include such large-sc ale
enterprises as automobile c ompanies and airlines. As large firms that supp ly a sizab le portion of a market,
these companies have some control over the prices they charge. But there’s a catch: because products are fairly
similar, when one company lowers prices, others are often forced to follow suit to remain competitive. You see
this practice all the time in the grocery sector—when one chain offers discounts or promotions, others typically
follow suit to attract customers and maintain market share.
Monopoly
In terms of the number of sellers and degre e of c ompetition, a monopo ly lies at the opposite end of the
3.3: DEGREES OF COMPETITION | 99

[Page 132]
spectrum from perfect competition. In perfect competition, there are man y small companies, none of which
can control prices; they simp ly accept the market pric e determined by supply and demand. In a monopo ly,
however, there’s only one seller in the market. The market c ould be a ge ographical area, such as a city or a
regional area, and doesn’t necessarily have to be an entire country.
There are f ew monopo lies in Canada be cause the go vernment limits them. M ost f all into one of tw o
categories—natural and legal. Natural monopolies include public utilities, such as electricity and gas suppliers.
Such enterprises re quire huge in vestments, and it w ould be inefficient to dup licate the products that they
provide. They inhibit competition, but they’re legal be cause they’re important to society. In exchange for the
right to c onduct business without c ompetition, they’re regulate d. For instance, they c an’t charge whatev er
prices they w ant; they must adhere to go vernment-controlled prices. As a rule, they’re re quired to serv e all
customers, even if doing so isn’t cost-efficient.
A legal monopo ly arises when a c ompany receives a p atent giving it e xclusive use of an in vented product
or process. Patents are issued for a limited time, generally tw enty years.1
During this period, other c ompanies
can’t use the invented product or process without permission from the patent holder. Patents allow companies
a certain period to recover the heavy costs of researching and dev eloping products and technologies. A classic
example of a c ompany that enjoyed a patent-based legal monopoly is Polaroid, which for years held exclusive
ownership of instant film technology.2
Polaroid priced the product high enough to recoup, over time, the high
cost of bringing it to market. Without competition, it enjoyed a monopolistic position in regard to pricing.
1. Brown, S. (2021, November 10). What happens when a patent expires? Patent Experts.
2. Bellis, M. (2019, July 3). Learn about Edwin Land, inventor of the Polaroid camera. ThoughtCo.
100 | 3.3: DEGREES OF COMPETITION

[Page 133]
Figure 3.4: The demand curve. [See image
description.]
3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND
To appre ciate ho w perf ect c ompetition w orks, w e ne ed to understand ho w buy ers and sellers interact in
a market to set pric es. In a market characterize d b y perf ect c ompetition, pric e is determine d through the
mechanisms of supply and demand. Prices are influenced both by the supply of products from sellers and b y
the demand for products b y buyers. When supp ly is greater than demand, pric es fall, and when demand is
greater than supply, prices rise.
To illustrate this c oncept, let us c reate a supp ly and demand sche dule for one p articular good so ld at one
point in time. Then w e’ll define demand and c reate a demand curv e, and define supp ly and c reate a supp ly
curve. Finally, we’ll see how supply and demand interact to c reate an e quilibrium price—the price at which
buyers are willing to purchase the quantity that sellers are willing to sell.
Demand and the Demand Curve
Demand is the quantity of a product that buyers are willing to
purchase at v arious pric es. The quantity of a product that
people are willing to buy depends on its pric e. Consumers are
typically willing to buy less of a product when pric es rise and
more of a product when prices fall. Generally speaking, we find
products more attractiv e at lo wer prices, and w e buy more at
lower prices because our income goes further.
Using this logic, w e c an c onstruct a demand curv e that
shows the quantity of a product that will be demande d at
different prices. Let’s assume that Figure 3.4, “The Demand
Curve,” represents the daily pric e and quantity of app les sold by farmers at a loc al market. Note that as the
price of apples goes down, buyers’ demand goes up . Thus, if a pound of app les sells for $0.80, buyers will be
willing to purchase only fifteen hundred pounds per day. But if apples cost only $0.60 a pound, buyers will be
willing to purchase tw o thousand pounds. At $0.40 a pound, buy ers will be willing to purchase tw enty-five
hundred pounds.
Factors that can affect demand include changes in income levels, population changes, consumer preferences,
complementary goods, and substitute goods.

3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND | 101

[Page 134]
Figure 3.5: The supply curve. [See image
description.]
Supply and the Supply Curve
Supply is the quantity of a product that sellers are willing to
sell at v arious pric es. The quantity of a product that a
business is willing to sell depends on its pric e. Businesses are
more willing to sell a product when the pric e rises and less
willing to sell it when prices fall. Again, this fact makes sense:
businesses are set up to make profits, and there are larger
profits to be made when prices are high.
Now w e c an c onstruct a supp ly curv e that sho ws the
quantity of app les that f armers w ould be willing to sell at
different pric es, regardless of demand. As sho wn in Figure
3.5, “The Supp ly Curv e”, the supp ly curv e goes in the
opposite direction from the demand curv e: as prices rise, the
quantity of apples that farmers are willing to sell also goes up. The supply curve shows that farmers are willing
to sell only a thousand pounds of apples when the price is $0.40 a pound, two thousand pounds when the price
is $0.60, and three thousand pounds when the price is $0.80.
Factors that affect supply include technological changes, changes in resourc e prices, price expectations, the
number of suppliers, and the price of substitute goods.
Equilibrium Price
We can now see how the market mechanism works under perfect competition. We do this by plotting both the
supply curve and the demand curve on one graph, as we have done in Figure 3.6. "The Equilibrium Price” is
the state in which market supply and demand balance each other; the point at which the two curves intersect.
102 | 3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND

[Page 135]
Figure 3.6: The equilibrium price. [See image
description.]
“The E quilibrium Pric e”, where the supp ly and
demand curves intersect, is at the pric e of $0.60 and
quantity of tw o thousand pounds. Thus, $0.60 is
the equilibrium price. At this pric e, the quantity of
apples demande d by buyers e quals the quantity of
apples that f armers are willing to supp ly. If a single
farmer tries to charge more than $0.60 f or a pound
of app les, they w on’t sell v ery many be cause other
suppliers are making app les a vailable f or less. As a
result, their profits will go do wn. If, on the other
hand, a f armer tries to charge less than the
equilibrium pric e of $0.60 a pound, they will sell
more apples, but their profit per pound will be less
than at the e quilibrium price. With profit being the
motive, there is no incentive to drop the price.
What ha ve y ou learne d in this discussion?
Without outside influences, markets in an en vironment of perf ect competition will arriv e at an e quilibrium
point at which both buyers and sellers are satisfied. But you must be aware that this is a very simplistic example.
Things are much more c omplex in the real w orld. F or one thing, markets rarely operate without outside
influences. Sometimes, sellers supply more of a product than buyers are willing to purchase; in that case, there’s
a surplus. Sometimes, they don’t produce enough of a product to satisfy demand; then we have a shortage.
Circumstances also have a habit of changing. What would happen, for example, if incomes rose and buyers
were willing to p ay more f or app les? The demand curv e w ould change, resulting in an inc rease in the
equilibrium price. This outc ome makes intuitiv e sense: as demand inc reases, prices will go up . What w ould
happen if apple crops were larger than e xpected because of favourable weather conditions? Farmers might be
willing to sell apples at lower prices rather than letting part of the crop spoil. If so, the supply curve would shift,
resulting in another change in equilibrium price: the increase in supply would bring down prices.
Media Attributions
“Figure 3.4: The demand curve” is reused from Demand curve,
and includes simple red apple from Openclipart.
“Figure 3.5: The supply curve” is reused from Supply curve,
and includes simple red apple from Openclipart.
3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND | 103

[Page 136]
“Figure 3.6: The equilibrium price” is reused from Equilibrium price,
BY 4.0 and includes simple red apple from Openclipart.
Image Descriptions
Figure 3.4
In the b ackground is an app le. In the f oreground is a grap h of the demand curv e f or app les. The x-axis,
representing apples (pounds per da y) extends from 0 to 5,000 in 1,000 inc rements. The y-axis, pric e (dollars
per pound) extends from 0 to 1.00 in 0.20 inc rements. The curve is a straight, negative line. Three lines show
points of intersection from the y-axis to the x-axis. The first line set extends from 0.80 on the y-axis to the curve,
and down from the curve to a point between 1,000 and 2,000 on the x-axis. The se cond line set extends from
0.60 to the curve, then from the curve to 2,000 on the x-axis. The third line set extends from 0.40 on the y-axis
to the curve, then from the curve to a point between 2,000 and 3,000 on the x-axis.
[back to figure]
Figure 3.5
In the b ackground is an app le. In the f oreground is a grap h of the supp ly curve for apples. The curv e is a
straight, positive line. The graph plots “Price” in dollars per pound on the vertical axis and “Apples per day” in
pounds on the horizontal axis. The vertical axis ranges from 0 to 1.00 dollars per pound, marked at intervals of
0.20. The horizontal axis ranges from 0 to 5000 pounds, marke d at 1000-pound interv als. A red line labelled
“Supply” extends diagonally from the origin, rising to the right, indicating an increase in price per pound with
the supply of apples per day. Three line sets show points of intersection from the y-axis to the x-axis. The first
dashed line set e xtends from 0.80 on the y-axis to the curv e, then from the curv e to 3,000 on the x-axis. The
second line set e xtends from 0.60 on the y-axis to the curv e, then from the curv e to 2,000 on the x-axis. The
third line set extends from 0.40 on the y-axis to the curve, then from the curve to 1,000 on the x-axis.
[back to figure]
Figure 3.6
In the background is an apple. In the foreground is a graph displaying both the supply and demand for apples.
The X-axis represents “Apples per day (pounds)” ranging from 0 to 5,000, and the Y-axis shows “Price (dollars
per pound)” from 0.00 to 0.80. A b lack dot marks the e quilibrium point where the tw o lines interse ct. The
demand curve, labelled in red and sloping downwards from left to right, crosses the supply curve, labelled also
in red but sloping up wards from left to right, at the e quilibrium. The interse ction occurs at appro ximately
2,500 pounds and $0.60 per pound.
104 | 3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND

[Page 137]
[back to figure]
3.4: THE BASICS OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND | 105

[Page 138]
3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE
ECONOMY
Every day, we are bombarded with economic news (at least if you watch the business news stations). We are told
about things like unemployment, home prices, and consumer confidence trends. As a student learning about
business, and later as a business manager, you need to understand the nature of the Canadian economy and the
terminology that we use to describe it. You need to have some idea of where the e conomy is heading, and you
need to know something about the government’s role in influencing its direction.
Economic Goals
The world’s economies share three main goals:
• Growth
• High employment
• Price stability
Let us take a closer look at each of these goals, both to find out what they mean and to show how we determine
whether or not they’re being met.
Economic Growth
One purpose of an e conomy is to pro vide pe ople with goods and servic es such as c ars, c omputers, vide o
games, houses, rock c oncerts, fast food, and amusement p arks. One w ay in which e conomists measure the
performance of an economy is by looking at a widely use d measure of total output c alled the gross domestic
product (GDP). The GDP is defined as the market v alue of all goods and servic es produced by the economy
in a giv en y ear. The GDP includes only those goods and servic es produc ed domestic ally; goods produc ed
outside the country are excluded. The GDP also includes only those goods and servic es that are produced for
the final user; interme diate products are e xcluded. For example, the silic on chip that goes into a c omputer
(an interme diate product) w ould not c ount dire ctly be cause it is include d when the finishe d c omputer is
counted. By itself, the GDP doesn’t necessarily tell us much about the direction of the economy. But a change
in the GDP does. If the GDP (after adjusting f or inflation) goes up, the economy is growing. If it goes do wn,
the economy is contracting. There is some deb ate amongst economists that GDP pro vides the most ac curate
106 | 3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY

[Page 139]
measure of an e conomy’s performance. Many economists believe that GDP per c apita, which is the measure
of total production of goods and servic es divided by the number of househo lds, is a better indic ator of an
economy’s performance. According to FocusEconomics, in 2025, the top five countries by GDP are: 1
• United States: USD 30.4 trillion
• China: USD 19.6 trillion
• Germany: USD 5.0 trillion
• Japan: USD 4.4 trillion
• India: USD 4.3 trillion
Figure 3.7: The business cycle. [See image description.]
As shown in Figure 3.7, the e conomic ups and do wns resulting from e xpansion and c ontraction constitute
the business cycle (also referred to as the industry life cycle). Similar to a product lifecycle, as a business cycle
1. Focus Economics. (2024, November 20). The top 10 largest economies in the world by GDP.
3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY | 107

[Page 140]
introduces new products, those products gro w, mature and de cline; when all business c ycles in an e conomy
are combined, an e conomy’s business c ycle is c reated. A typic al cycle runs from thre e to five years but c ould
last much longer. Though typic ally irregular, a c ycle can be divide d into f our general p hases of prosperity ,
recession, depression (which the cycle generally skips), and recovery:
• During prosperity, the economy expands, unemployment is low, incomes rise, and consumers buy more
products. Businesses respond by increasing production and offering new and better products.
• Eventually, however, things slow down. GDP decreases, unemployment rises, and because people have
less money to spend, business revenues decline. This slowdown in economic activity is called a
recession. Economists often say that we are entering a recession when GDP goes down for two
consecutive quarters.
• Generally, a recession is followed by a recovery or expansion in which the economy starts growing again.
• If, however, a recession lasts a long time (perhaps a decade or so), while unemployment remains very
high and production is severely curtailed, the economy could sink into a depression. While economists
have defined recession, they have not agreed on a uniform standard for what constitutes a depression,
though they are generally characterized by their duration. Though not impossible, it is unlikely that
Canada will experience another severe depression like that of the 1930s. The federal government has a
number of economic tools (some of which we’ll discuss shortly) with which to fight any threat of a
depression.
High Employment
To keep the economy going strong, people must spend money on goods and servic es. A reduction in personal
expenditures for things like food, clothing, appliances, automobiles, housing, and me dical care could severely
reduce GDP and w eaken the e conomy. Be cause most pe ople earn their spending money b y w orking, an
important go al of all e conomies is making jobs a vailable to ev eryone who w ants one. In princip le, full
employment oc curs when ev eryone who w ants to w ork has a job . In practic e, w e sa y that w e ha ve full
employment when about 95 percent of those wanting to work are employed.
Unemployment
Statistics Canada tracks unemp loyment and reports the unemployment rate: the perc entage of the labour
force that is at least 15 y ears old and that is unemp loyed and actively seeking work. The unemp loyment rate
is an important measure of e conomic health. It goes up during re cessionary periods be cause companies are
reluctant to hire w orkers when demand f or goods and servic es is lo w. Con versely, it goes do wn when the
economy is expanding and there is high demand f or products and w orkers to supply them. There are sev eral
different measures of unemployment because there are different reasons people may be unemployed, including:
108 | 3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY

[Page 141]
• Frictional unemployment. Workers move between jobs and locations.
• Structural unemployment. Jobs are terminated.
• Cyclical unemployment. Impacted by the business cycle, when businesses may not have enough demand
for labour.
• Seasonal unemployment. Jobs that occur during part of the year (e.g., snow plowing, beach-related
industries).
Figure 3.8 sho ws the Statistics Canada map of the unemp loyment rate b y pro vince and territory as of
September 2024. Which province or territory has the highest unemployment rate? Why might that be?
Figure 3.8: Statistics Canada, unemployment rate by province and territory, September 2024. [See image
description.]
Price Stability
A third major goal of all economies is maintaining price stability. Price stability occurs when the average price
for goods and servic es either does not change or changes v ery little. Rapidly rising pric es are troublesome for
both individuals and businesses. F or individuals, rising pric es mean pe ople have to p ay more f or the things
3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY | 109

[Page 142]
they need. For businesses, rising prices mean higher costs, and, at least in the short run, businesses might ha ve
trouble passing on higher costs to consumers.
Inflation
When the o verall pric e lev el goes up , w e ha ve inflation. M ore jobs and higher w ages inc rease househo ld
incomes and lead to a rise in consumer spending, further increasing aggregate demand and the scope for firms
to inc rease the pric es of their goods and servic es. When this happens to a large number of businesses and
sectors, it leads to an increase in inflation.
The inflation rate in Canada averaged 3.02 percent from 1915 until 2025. This means that $100 in 1915 is
equivalent in purchasing power to about $2,638.04 today, an increase of $2,538.04 over 110 years. 2
Deflation
When the price level goes down (which rarely happens), w e have deflation. A deflationary situation c an also
be damaging to an e conomy. When purchasers believ e they c an expect lower prices in the future, they ma y
defer making purchases, which has the effect of slowing economic growth. Japan experienced a long period of
deflation, which contributed to economic stagnation in that country, from which it is only no w beginning to
recover.
The Consumer Price Index (CPI)
The most widely publicized measure of inflation is the consumer price index (CPI), which is reported monthly
by Statistics Canada. The consumer price index (CPI) measures the rate of inflation b y determining pric e
changes of a h ypothetical b asket of goods, such as f ood, housing, clothing, me dical c are, app liances,
automobiles, and so forth, bought by a typical household.
The Bank of Canada currently measures pric es against the b ase year of 2002, and the b asket for that y ear
is given the value of 100. In 2012, the CPI a veraged $121, which means that what y ou could buy for $100 in
2002 cost $121.70 in 2012. The difference registers the effect of inflation. In fact, that’s what an inflation rate
is—the percentage change in a price index.
The Bank of Canada c reated an Inflation Calculator to compare the c osts of c onsumer goods from then
to now. For example, ask a p arent or an o lder neighbour what they p aid for their first car, first house, or first
2. Webster, I. (n.d.).
Value of $100 from 1915 to 2025. Official Data Foundation. Retrieved February 21, 2025, from https:// www.officialdata.org/canada/inflation/
1915?amount=100
110 | 3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY

[Page 143]
formal wear. Observe Figure 3.9 showing the consumer price index for the years 2000 to 2024. Why do you
think there is a huge increase in the CPI during 2022? What happened in the world to cause this?

Figure 3.9: Statistics Canada Consumer Price Index from 2000 to 2025. [See image description.]
Media Attributions
“Figure 3.7: The Business Cy cle” is adapte d from Chapter 3 – E conomics and Business in Fundamentals of
Business, © Florence Daddey and Rachael Newton, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Figure 3.8: Statistics Canada, unemp loyment rate b y pro vince and territory , September 2024 (Source:
Statistics Canada, 2024, No vember 10, b ased on Labour F orce Surv ey (3701), tab les 14-10-0287-02 and
3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY | 111

[Page 144]
14-10-0292-02. Reproduced and distributed on an “as is ” basis with the permission of Statistics Canada.), ©
Statistics Canada, licensed under Statistics Canada Open license/All Rights Reserved.
Figure 3.9: Statistics Canada Consumer Pric e Index from 2000 to 2025. (Source: Statistics Canada, 2025,
February 18, b ased on pric e trends: 1914 to toda y. Reproduc ed and distribute d on an “as is ” b asis with
the permission of Statistics Canada.), © Statistics Canada, lic ensed under Statistics Canada Open lic ense/All
Rights Reserved.
Image Descriptions
Figure 3.7
A graph diagram with the horizontal axis “Time,” and the v ertical axis “Real GDP per y ear.” A w avy yellow
line represents c yclical economic fluctuations, illustrating p hases labelled “Peak,” “Contraction,” “Trough,”
and “Expansion,” and “Peak.” These phases are marked by vertical dashed lines. A horizontal arrow on the left
between Peak and Trough is labelled “Recession,” and the arrow to the right between Trough and the second
Peak is labelled “Recovery,” indicating periods of e conomic decline and growth. A green upward-sloping line
labelled “Growth Trend” intersects the cyclical line, suggesting a long-term positive trend in economic output.
[back to figure]
Figure 3.8
A map of Canada with provincial and territorial borders and a legend. Each province and territory has a yellow
callout listing the unemp loyment rate and perc entage point changes in the month of September 2024. A
legend at the top right c orner explains the c olour coding for the unemp loyment rate and perc entage point
change.
112 | 3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY

[Page 145]
Province or Territory Unemployment rate Percentage point change in the month
Yukon 5.6% +1.4*
Northwest Territories 5.3% +0.4
Nunavut 9.7% -1.4*
British Columbia 6.0% +0.2
Alberta 7.5% -0.2
Saskatchewan 5.7% +0.3
Manitoba 5.7% -0.1
Ontario 6.9% -0.2*
Quebec 5.5% -0.2
New Brunswick 6.7% +0.2
Nova Scotia 6.3% -0.4
Prince Edward Island 7.1% -1.1*
Newfoundland and Labrador 10.0% -0.4
Canada 6.5% -0.1*
Note(s): Statistic ally significant changes denote d with * s ymbol. Data are seasonally adjuste d. Data f or the
territories are three-month moving averages.
Source(s): Labour Force Survey (3701), tables 14-10-0287-02 and 14-10-0292-02.
[back to figure]
Figure 3.9
A line grap h with a v ertical axis ranging from -1 to 9, representing the perc entage change, and a horizontal
axis with the y ears from 2001 to 2025. The grap h illustrates variable trends with peaks and drops, indic ating
periods of inflation and deflation over the years, trending between 0.5 and 5. In 2009, the line drops do wn to
-1 and goes back to the range in 2010. After a drop just below 0 around 2020, the line has a notable spike up to
8 around 2022 .
[back to figure]
3.5: MEASURING THE HEALTH OF THE ECONOMY | 113

[Page 146]
3.6: ECONOMIC FORECASTING
In the previous se ction, we introduced several measures that e conomists use to assess the perf ormance of the
economy at a giv en time. By loo king at changes in the GDP , for instance, we can see whether the e conomy is
growing. The CPI allows us to gauge inflation. These measures help us understand where the economy stands
today. But what if we want to get a sense of where it’s headed in the future? To a certain extent, we can forecast
future economic trends by analyzing several leading economic indicators.
Leading, Coincident and Lagging Economic Indicators
In e conomics, leading, lagging, and c oincident indic ators are too ls use d to analyze and pre dict e conomic
performance. These indicators help economists, policymakers, and businesses make informed decisions about
the state of the e conomy and potential future trends. An economic indic ator is a statistic that pro vides
valuable information about the e conomy. There’s no shortage of e conomic indicators, and trying to f ollow
them all would be an overwhelming task. So, in this chapter, we will only discuss the general concept and a few
of the key indicators.
The three main Canadian economic indicators are leading indicators, coincident indicators and lagging
indicators.
Leading Indicators
Indicators that pre dict the status of the e conomy three to tw elve months into the future are c alled leading
economic indicators. If such an indic ator rises, the e conomy is more likely to e xpand in the c oming year. If
it f alls, the e conomy is more likely to c ontract. Leading indic ators signal future e conomic activity and are
used to pre dict changes in the e conomy before they oc cur. For e xample, stock pric es often refle ct investor
sentiments about future e conomic c onditions. An inc rease in building permits suggests future gro wth in
the construction and housing markets. On the consumer confidence index, higher confidence indicates likely
increases in spending, boosting e conomic activity. An inc rease in new orders f or manuf acturing indic ates
increased production and economic growth. Businesses and policymakers monitor these changes to anticipate
expansions or contractions in the economy.
New unemp loyment claims often refle ct emp loyers’ e xpectations about future e conomic c onditions. If
businesses anticipate a slowdown, they may lay off workers, leading to an increase in claims. This data provides
an early signal of w eakening e conomic activity or labour market challenges. E conomists and po licymakers
monitor changes in unemp loyment claims to pre dict potential re cessions or re coveries. F or e xample, a
114 | 3.6: ECONOMIC FORECASTING

[Page 147]
sustained rise in claims c ould indic ate an impending e conomic do wnturn, prompting pro active po licy
adjustments such as monetary easing or fiscal stimulus.
Lagging Indicators
These indicators reflect changes that ha ve already occurred in the e conomy. They confirm trends but do not
predict them. For example, changes in unemp loyment often lag behind e conomic trends as businesses adjust
to economic shifts. Rising consumer debt levels confirm past high spending levels during an economic boom.
The inflation rate typically reacts to earlier changes in supp ly, demand and monetary po licy. These indicators
are useful f or v alidating the ac curacy of leading indic ators and understanding the e conomy’s historic al
performance.
The length of unemployment is also a lagging indicator. If unemployed workers have remained out of work
for a long time, we may infer that the economy has been slow.
Coincident Indicators
These indic ators mo ve in real-time with the e conomy, reflecting its current state. Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) directly shows the economic output at a given time. Employment levels indicate current labour market
conditions. Retail sales refle ct ongoing c onsumer spending trends. Industrial production measures real-time
manufacturing activity. These indicators provide a snapshot of the present economic situation and are helpful
for short-term planning.
Since employment is such a key goal in any economy, the Canadian Industry Statistics, in collaboration with
Statistics Canada, tracks total non-farm payroll employment from which the number of net new jobs c reated
can be determined. The number of new jobs created is considered a coincidental indicator in economics. New
job c reation reflects current e conomic activity and labour market c onditions. It sho ws ho w businesses are
responding to the e xisting economic climate by expanding their workforce, which aligns with the e conomy’s
present state rather than predicting future trends. A rise in new jobs typically coincides with economic growth,
indicating health y c onsumer demand and business in vestment. Con versely, a de cline in new jobs suggests
slower economic activity or contraction.
Understanding the differences between these indicators is crucial:
• Businesses might use leading indicators to forecast demand and adjust production.
• Governments use lagging indicators to assess the effectiveness of policies.
• Both rely on coincident indicators for immediate economic health assessments.
3.6: ECONOMIC FORECASTING | 115

[Page 148]
3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN
MANAGING THE ECONOMY
The Canadian government, including federal, provincial and municipal governments, plays many roles within
the Canadian economic system and influences business activities in many ways. The roles the government plays
are as follows:
• Government as a customer
• Government as a competitor
• Government as a regulator—promoting competition, protecting consumers, achieving social goals and
protecting the environment
• Government as a taxation agent
• Government as a provider of incentives
• Government as a protector of consumers or customers
• Government as a provider of essential services
Businesses ma y also influenc e go vernment through lobb ying, joining trade associations, making po litical
donations and trying to convince voters to support or oppose certain regulations and policies.
In managing the economy, the government may use three main policies—monetary policy, fiscal policy, and
national debt management.
Monetary Policy
Monetary po licy is e xercised b y the Bank of C anada, which is empo wered to take v arious actions that
decrease or inc rease the money supp ly and raise or lo wer short-term interest rates, making it harder or easier
to borrow money. As sho wn in Figure 3.10, when the Bank of Canada believ es that inflation is a prob lem,
it will use c ontractionary policy to decrease the money supp ly and raise interest rates. When rates are higher,
borrowers have to pay more for the money they borrow, and banks are more selective in making loans. Because
money is “tighter”—more e xpensive to borro w—demand for goods and servic es will go do wn, and so will
prices. In any case, that’s the theory.
The Bank of Canada will typically tighten or decrease the money supply during inflationary periods, making
it harder to borrow money.
To counter a re cession, the Bank of Canada uses e xpansionary policy to inc rease the money supp ly and
116 | 3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN MANAGING THE ECONOMY

[Page 149]
reduce interest rates. W ith lower interest rates, it’s cheaper to borro w money, and b anks are more willing to
lend it. We then sa y that money is “ easy.” Attractive interest rates enc ourage businesses to borro w money to
expand production and encourage consumers to buy more goods and servic es. In theory, both sets of actions
will help the economy escape or come out of a recession.

Figure 3.10: Bank of Canada monetary policy actions. [See image descriptions.]
Fiscal Policy
Fiscal po licy relies on the go vernment’s po wers of spending and tax ation. Both tax ation and go vernment
spending can be used to reduce or increase the total supply of money in the e conomy — the total amount, in
other words, that businesses and consumers have to spend.
Below are a few key points:
• Taxation as a tool. The federal government adjusts taxes (e.g., income tax, corporate tax, GST) to
influence economic activity. For instance, tax cuts may be implemented to stimulate consumer spending
and investment during economic downturns. When the country is in a recession, government policy is
typically to increase spending, reduce taxes, or both. Such expansionary actions will put more money in
the hands of businesses and consumers, encouraging businesses to expand and consumers to buy more
3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN MANAGING THE ECONOMY | 117

[Page 150]
goods and services. Expansionary fiscal policy is used to increase government expenditures and/or
decrease taxes, which causes the government’s budget deficit to increase or its budget surplus to decrease.
When the economy is experiencing inflation, the opposite policy is adopted: the government will
decrease spending or increase taxes, or both. Because such contractionary measures reduce spending by
businesses and consumers, prices come down and inflation eases. Contractionary fiscal policy is used to
decrease government expenditures and/or increase taxes, which causes the government’s budget deficit
to decrease or its budget surplus to increase.
• Government spending. Public expenditures on infrastructure, healthcare, education, and social programs
are critical components of fiscal policy. Increased spending during economic slowdowns can boost
demand and promote growth, while spending reductions may help curb inflation.
• Budget management. Canada’s fiscal policy balances between deficits and surpluses. During recessions,
deficits may increase due to stimulus measures, whereas in economic booms, surpluses help reduce
national debt.
• Targeted economic support. Programs like the Canada Child Benefit (CCB) or pandemic relief measures
(e.g., CERB) reflect the use of fiscal policy to address specific societal or economic challenges and
support vulnerable populations.
The National Debt
The national debt is also ref erred to as Canada ’s public debt. If, in any given year, the go vernment takes in
more money (through taxes) than it spends on goods and servic es (for things such as def ence, transportation,
and social servic es), the result is a budget surp lus. If, on the other hand, the go vernment spends more than
it takes in, w e ha ve a budget deficit (which the go vernment p ays off b y borro wing through the issuanc e
of T reasury bonds). Historic ally, deficits ha ve oc curred much more often than surp luses—typically, the
government spends more than it takes in.
Below are a few key facts:
• Federal debt levels. As of the 2023-2024 fiscal year, Canada’s federal net debt has risen to approximately
$1.33 trillion, reflecting a significant increase from pre-pandemic levels. This surge includes the impacts
of COVID-19 relief measures and ongoing fiscal policies.1
• Combined federal-provincial debt. When combining federal and provincial levels, the total net debt
reached approximately $2.18 trillion in 2023/24. The debt-to-GDP ratio for federal and provincial
governments collectively has risen from 65.7% in 2019/20 to 76.2% in 2023/24.2
1. Fuss, J., & Munro, G. (2024, January). The growing debt burden of Canadians: 2024 edition. Fraser Research Bulletin.
118 | 3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN MANAGING THE ECONOMY

[Page 151]
• Debt per capita. On average, each Canadian is responsible for approximately $33,682 in federal debt.
Provincial variations exist, with Newfoundland and Labrador having the highest per capita debt at
$32,561, followed by Ontario at $27,091.3
Media Attributions
“Figure 3.10: Bank of Canada monetary policy actions” is adapted from Chapter 16 – Money and Banking in
Fundamentals of Business, © Florence Daddey and Rachael Newton, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Image Descriptions
Figure 3.10
A flowchart titled “Bank of Canada M onetary Policy Actions” consists of nine bo xes in thre e rows of thre e.
On the f ar left, the top bo x is labelle d Tools; under “Tools,” an arro w point do wnwards to “Open M arket
Operation,” where an arro w points do wn to “Bank Rate.” E ach of these ha ve arrows pointing to the c entre
column.
The centre column is labelle d “Expansionary policy (Stimulate business activity and inc rease the money
supply)” and the left c olumn is labelle d “Restrictiv e po licy (Slo w do wn business activity and de crease the
money supply).”
Expansionary Policy includes
• On the Open Market Operation level: BUY government securities: These purchases increase bank
reserves and their ability to make loans to businesses and consumers.
• On the Bank Rate level: LOWER the bank rate: By increasing the willingness of banks to borrow, more
loans to businesses and consumers can be made.
Restrictive Policy includes
• SELL government securities: These sales decrease bank reserves and their ability to make loans to
2. Fuss, J., & Munro, G. (2024, January). The growing debt burden of Canadians: 2024 edition. Fraser Research Bulletin.
3. Fuss, J., & Munro, G. (2024, January). The growing debt burden of Canadians: 2024 edition. Fraser Research Bulletin.
3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN MANAGING THE ECONOMY | 119

[Page 152]
businesses and consumers.
• RAISE the bank rate: By decreasing the willingness of banks to borrow, fewer loans to businesses and
consumers can be made.
[back to figure]
120 | 3.7: THE GOVERNMENT’S ROLE IN MANAGING THE ECONOMY

[Page 153]
Everyone likes to have money!
3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY
OF MONEY
Money Characteristics
If you happen to have one on you, take a look at a
$5 bill. Though this piece of paper — indeed, money
itself — has no intrinsic v alue, it is c ertainly in
demand. Wh y? Be cause money serv es thre e b asic
functions:
• a medium of exchange;
• a measure of value; and
• a store of value.
To get a better idea of the role of money in a modern
economy, let us imagine a system in which there is no
money. In this s ystem, goods and servic es
are bartered — traded directly for one another. Now, if you are living and trading under such a system, for each
barter exchange that y ou make, y ou will ha ve to ha ve something that another trader w ants. For example, say
you are a f armer who ne eds help clearing his fields. Be cause you have plenty of f ood, you might enter into a
barter transaction with a labourer who has time to clear fields but not enough f ood: he’ll clear y our fields in
return for three square meals a da y. This system will work as long as tw o people have exchangeable assets, but
needless to sa y, it c an be inefficient. If w e identify the functions of money , we will se e how it impro ves the
exchange for all the parties in our hypothetical set of transactions.
Money is anything that is ac ceptable as p ayment for goods and servic es. It affects our liv es in man y ways.
We earn it, spend it, sa ve it, invest it — and often wish w e had more of it. Businesses and the go vernment use
money in similar ways. Both require money to finance their operations. By c ontrolling the amount of money
in circulation, the federal government can promote economic growth and stability. For this reason, money has
been called the lubricant of the machinery that drives our economic system. Our banking system was developed
to ease the handling of money.
3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY OF MONEY | 121

[Page 154]
Medium of Exchange
Money serves as a medium of exchange because people will accept it in exchange for goods and services. Because
people can use money to buy the goods and servic es that they want, everyone’s willing to trade something for
money. The labourer will take money to clear y our fields because he can use it to buy food. You’ll take money
as payment for his food because you can use it not only to p ay him but also to buy something else y ou need
(perhaps seeds for planting crops).
For money to be used in this way, it must possess a few crucial properties:
• It must be divisible — easily divided into usable quantities or fractions. A $5 bill, for example, is equal to
five $1 coins. If something costs $3, you don’t have to rip up a $5 bill; you can pay with three $1 coins.
• It must be portable — easy to carry; it can’t be too heavy or bulky.
• It must be durable — strong enough to resist tearing, and the print can’t wash off if it winds up in the
washing machine.
• It must be difficult to counterfeit — it won’t have much value if people can make their own.
Measure of Value
Money simplifies exchanges because it serves as a measure of v alue. We state the pric e of a good or servic e in
monetary units so that potential e xchange partners know exactly how much v alue we want in return f or it.
This practice is a lot better than bartering because it’s much more precise than an ad hoc agreement that a day’s
work in the field has the same value as three meals.
Store of Value
Money serves as a store of v alue. Because people are c onfident that money ke eps its v alue over time, they’re
willing to save it for future exchanges. Under a bartering arrangement, the labourer earned three meals a day in
exchange for his work. But what if, on a giv en day, he skipped a meal? Could he “sa ve” that meal for another
day? Maybe, but if he were paid in money, he could decide whether to spend it on food each day or save some
of it for the future. If he wanted to collect his unpaid meal two or three days later, the farmer might not be able
to pay it; unlike money, food could go bad.
The Money Supply
Now that we know what money does, let us tackle another question: ho w much money is there? How would
you go about “ counting” all the money held b y individuals, businesses, and go vernment agencies in this
country? You could start b y counting the money that’s held to p ay for things on a daily b asis. This c ategory
122 | 3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY OF MONEY

[Page 155]
includes cash (paper bills and coins) and funds held in demand deposits — chequing accounts, which pay given
sums to “payees” when they demand them.
Then, you might c ount the money that is being “sa ved” for future use. This c ategory includes interestbearing accounts, time deposits (such as c ertificates of deposit, which pay interest after a designated period of
time), and money market mutual funds, which p ay interest to in vestors who pool funds to make short-term
loans to businesses and the government.
M-1 and M-2
Counting all this money w ould be a daunting task (in f act, it w ould be impossib le). Fortunately, there’s an
easier way — namely, by examining two measures that the go vernment compiles for the purpose of tracking
the money supply: M-1 and M-2.
• M-1 is the narrowest measure, and it includes the most liquid forms of money — the forms, such as cash
and chequing account funds, which are spent immediately.
• M-2 includes everything in M-1 plus near-cash items invested for the short term — savings accounts,
time deposits and money market mutual funds.
How much money is out there? As of M arch 2025, the M1 money supp ly in Canada w as approximately
1,641,346 million CAD 1
In 2025, M-2 in Canada increased to CAD 2,695,496 million in March from CAD
2,689,800 million in February.2
1. Trading Economics. (n.d.) Canada Money Supply M1. Retrieved May 29, 2025, from https://tradingeconomics.com/canada/money-supply-m1
2. Trading Economics. (n.d.). Canada money supply M2. Retrieved May 26, 2025, from https://tradingeconomics.com/canada/money-supply-m2
3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY OF MONEY | 123

[Page 156]
Credit cards are a plastic form of money.
What Exactly Is “Plastic Money”?
Are credit cards a form of money? If not, wh y do
we c all it p lastic money? Actually , when y ou buy
something with a c redit card, you are not spending
money. The principle of the credit card is buy-nowpay-later. In other words, when you use plastic, you
are taking out a loan that you intend to pay off when
you get y our bill. And the lo an itself is not money .
Why not? Basically, because the credit card company
cannot use the asset to buy an ything. The lo an is
merely a promise of rep ayment. The asset does not
become money until the bill is p aid (with interest).
That is wh y c redit c ards are not include d in the
calculation of M-1 and M-2.
The Role of the Bank of Canada
The Bank of Canada is the nation’s c entral bank. Its principal role is “to promote the e conomic and financial
welfare of Canada,” as define d in the Bank of Canada Act. The Bank of Canada is a spe cial type of Cro wn
corporation that is o wned b y the f ederal go vernment but has c onsiderable independenc e to c arry out its
responsibilities and therefore operates separately from the political process.
The Bank’s four main areas of responsibility are:3
• Monetary policy: The Bank influences the supply of money circulating in the economy, using its
monetary policy framework to keep inflation low and stable.
• Financial systems: The Bank promotes safe, sound and efficient financial systems, within Canada and
internationally, and conducts transactions in financial markets in support of these objectives.
• Currency: The Bank designs, issues and distributes Canada’s bank notes.
• Funds management: The Bank is the fiscal agent for the Government of Canada, managing its public
debt programs and foreign exchange reserves.
3. Bank of Canada. (n.d.). About us.
124 | 3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY OF MONEY

[Page 157]
The Bank of Canada is le d b y the Go verning Council, the po licy-making body of the Bank, which is
responsible for:
• conducting monetary policy; and
• promoting a safe and efficient financial system.
The Governing Council is made up of the Governor, the Senior Deputy Governor and the Deputy Governors.
The Governing Council’s main tool for conducting monetary policy is the target f or the overnight rate (also
known as the key po licy rate). This rate is normally set on eight fix ed announc ement dates per y ear. The
Council reaches its decisions about the rate by consensus, rather than by individual votes, as is the case at some
other central banks.
The Bank of Canada plays a vital role in managing the country’s money supply. If the Bank of Canada wants
to increase the money supp ly, it c an buy go vernment securities. The individuals and in vestors who sell these
bonds then deposit the proceeds in their banks. These deposits increase banks’ reserves and their willingness to
make loans. The Bank of Canada can also lower the bank rate; this action will cause increased demand for loans
from businesses and households because these customers borrow more money when interest rates drop.
If the Bank of Canada w ants to de crease the money supp ly, it c an sell go vernment securities. Individuals
and investors spend money to buy bonds, and these withdra wals bring down banks’ reserves and reduce their
willingness to make lo ans. The Bank of Canada c an also raise the b ank rate; this action will de crease the
demand for loans from businesses and househo lds because these customers borro w less money when interest
rates rise.
Media Attributions
“Silver, Cat, Animal image” by Allange, used under the Pixabay license.
“Credit cards, Denim, Jeans image” by TheDigitalWay, used under the Pixabay license.
3.8: THE CHARACTERISTICS AND SUPPLY OF MONEY | 125

[Page 158]
3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING
STRUCTURE
Policymaking and regulatory po wers are different in ev ery nation; loc al standards and la ws also v ary greatly,
which means that banking systems vary greatly. These two United Nations agencies — the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund — assist in financing international trade.
The World Bank
The World Bank is an important sourc e of e conomic assistance for poor and dev eloping countries. With
backing from w ealthy donor c ountries (such as Canada, the Unite d States, Jap an, Germany, and the Unite d
Kingdom), the W orld Bank pro vides loans, grants, and guarante es to some of the w orld’s poorest nations.
Loans are made to help c ountries impro ve the liv es of the poor through c ommunity support programs
designed to provide health, nutrition, education, infrastructure, and other social services.
The International Monetary Fund
TheInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) is governed by and accountable to its 191 member c ountries and
has three critical missions: furthering international monetary cooperation, encouraging the expansion of trade
and economic growth, and discouraging policies that would harm prosperity.1
These countries combine their resources to:
• encourage the development of a system for international payments;
• promote the stability of exchange rates;
• provide temporary, short-term loans to member countries; and
• encourage members to cooperate on international monetary issues.
The IMF loans money to countries with troubled economies, such as Mexico in the 1980s and mid-1990s, and
Russia and Argentina in the late 1990s. There are, ho wever, strings attache d to IMF lo ans; in e xchange for
1. International Monetary Fund. (n.d.). What is the IMF?
126 | 3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING STRUCTURE

[Page 159]
relief in times of financial crisis, borrower countries must institute sometimes painful financial and economic
reforms. In the 1980s, f or example, Mexico re ceived financial relief from the IMF on the c ondition that it
privatize and deregulate c ertain industries and liberalize trade po licies. The go vernment was also re quired to
cut back expenditures for such services as education, health care, and workers’ benefits.
Some nations have declined IMF funds rather than accept the economic changes that the IMF demands. In
2021, according to the IMF w ebsite, the IMF had about $1 trillion a vailable for loans. Despite the f act that
the U.S. has be en instrumental in promoting glob al free trade for decades, the recent Trump Administration
has stated its p lans to withdra w from the WT O in 2025. The 2025 T rump administration has also be en a
proponent of tariffs and has imp lemented new tariff initiatives for many imports to the Unite d States. Much
of this is happening at the same time as this boo k is being written, so please keep abreast of the economic and
trade policies of the Trump administration in 2025 to ensure you are up to date with the newest decisions.
Canadian Banks in the International Marketplace
The financial marketp lace sp ans the globe, with money routinely flo wing ac ross international borders.
Canadian b anks p lay an important ro le in glob al business b y pro viding lo ans to f oreign go vernments and
businesses. Multinational corporations need many special banking services, such as foreign currency exchange
and funding f or o verseas in vestments. Canadian b anks also off er trade-relate d servic es, such as glob al c ash
management, which help firms manage their c ash flow, impro ve their p ayment efficiency, and re duce their
exposure to operational risks. Sometimes, consumers in other nations need banking services that banks in their
own countries do not provide. Therefore, large banks often look beyond their national borders f or profitable
banking opportunities.
Foreign funding has be en crucial to Canada ’s economic development, with the Canadian c apital market
being an integral part of the international capital market. Canadian provinces often secure financing in foreign
markets like London and New Y ork, and proje ctions suggest that f oreign c apital will remain essential to
meeting Canada’s future financial needs.
Some Canadian b anks ha ve estab lished a presenc e in o verseas markets, opening offic es in Europe, Latin
America, and Asia. These banks often offer superior customer service compared to local institutions and have
access to div erse funding sourc es. Ho wever, international e xpansion poses challenges. Canadian b anks face
competition from f oreign institutions that operate under less stringent regulations, enab ling them to off er
more competitive pricing. Some governments also protect domestic banks by restricting foreign competition.
For instance, in China, f oreign banks face high f ees, deposit limits, and interest rate c ontrols, which f avour
3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING STRUCTURE | 127

[Page 160]
government-owned Chinese banks. Despite these obstacles, certain Canadian banks continue to do business in
China.2
International banks operating in Canada signific antly contribute to the e conomy by creating jobs, p aying
taxes, and making operational and c apital in vestments. M ost emp loyees in these institutions are Canadian
citizens, further supporting the domestic workforce.
Nonetheless, international banking carries risks, including political and economic instability. The financial
crisis of 2007–2009 highlighte d these vulnerabilities, with c ountries such as Gre ece, P ortugal, Sp ain, and
Ireland e xperiencing sev ere e conomic disruptions. Re covery in these nations has be en slo w, but financial
assistance from the European Union and the International M onetary Fund has p layed a c ritical ro le in
stabilizing both regional and global economies.
Currency Values and Exchange Rates
Currencies are trade d in the f oreign exchange market. Like an y other market, when something is e xchanged,
there is a pric e. In the f oreign exchange market, a currenc y is being bought and so ld, and the pric e of that
currency is given in some other currency. That price is expressed as an exchange rate.
When an exchange rate changes, the value of one currency will go up while the v alue of the other currency
will go down. When the value of a currency increases, it is said to ha ve appreciated. On the other hand, when
the value of a currency decreases, it is said to have depreciated.
The Canadian dollar fluctuates against the American dollar in a range of 65-70 percent. In November 2007,
the Canadian dollar was stronger than the U.S. dollar, at USD $1.09. After a few years of parity, the Canadian
dollar retreated to approximately USD $0.76 in June 2018.3
These fluctuations have an impact on businesses.
International Payment Process
International financial settlements between buyers and sellers are different in many countries. Canadian banks
provide services to buyers and sellers to support their clients during glob al financial transactions. Country-tocountry transactions rely on an international p ayment process that moves money between buyers and sellers
in different countries. For example, payment from a Canadian buyer starts at a local bank that converts funds
from dollars into the seller’s currenc y, say British pounds sterling, to be sent to a seller in England. At the
same time, p ayments and currenc y conversions from sep arate transactions are also flo wing between British
businesses and Canadian sellers in the other direction. A balanced trade between the two countries implies that
2. Bank of Canada. (n.d.). About us.
3. Xe. (n.d.). US dollar to Canadian dollar exchange rate chart.
128 | 3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING STRUCTURE

[Page 161]
Bitcoin decentralized cryptocurrency
money inflows and outflo ws are e qual for both c ountries. If inflo ws and outflo ws are not in b alance at the
Canadian bank or the British b ank, then a flow of money, either to England or Canada, is made to c over the
difference.
Future Trend: A Centralized Digital Currency
Digital curr encies are currencies that are only
accessible with computers or mobile phones because they
only e xist in ele ctronic f orm. Digital money is not
physically tangib le like a do llar bill or a c oin. It is
accounted for and transf erred using online s ystems. The
difference betw een digital currencies and
cryptocurrencies is that digital currencies are c entralized,
meaning that transactions within the netw ork are
regulated in a c entralized loc ation, like a b ank.
Cryptocurrencies are mostly de centralized, and the
regulations within the netw ork are go verned b y the
majority of the community.
The Bank of Canada rev ealed in 2016 that it w as dev eloping the CAD-c oin as a digital v ersion of the
Canadian dollar, a mo ve in response to the rise in popularity of bitc oin and other b lockchain-based digital
currencies. The initiativ e will in volve issuing, transf erring and settling the c entral bank’s monetary assets b y
way of a c omputerized le dger rather than b y w ay of printe d do llars. Research and e xperiments ha ve be en
ongoing since 2016. Some major banks in Canada are participating in this new initiative, including Royal Bank
of Canada, CIBC and TD Bank Group, and institutional partners such as Payments Canada and TMX Group.
Despite their claim of being the money of the future, current priv ate digital currencies, like Bitc oin, do
not w ork w ell f or making p ayments or sa ving f or the future. Be cause of their fluctuating v alues and slo w
clearing times, very few merchants accept them. It is possible that in the future, digital currencies could at least
partially solve these problems, leading to greater adoption. However, the widespread adoption of private digital
currencies would carry important risks to both the economy and the financial system. The issuer could go out
of business or fall victim to cybertheft; either situation could cause a loss of confidence in the payment system.
Exploring the idea of a c entral b ank digital currenc y makes sense. In the ory, it c ould pro vide the saf ety
of c ash, with the c onvenience of modern ele ctronic p ayments. It c ould take man y f orms, but tw o bro ad
approaches are:
• value-based — people transfer money from their bank account to a card or a phone app; or
• account-based — people or businesses open accounts at the central bank.
3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING STRUCTURE | 129

[Page 162]
Either way, payments made using a central bank digital currency could allow payments to remain private to the
parties involved, just like cash, but traceable to law enforcement, just like bank accounts.
Central bank digital currencies c ould give consumers more choic e while maintaining c ompetition among
financial service providers like banks, the way cash does now. Depending on their design, they could even act as
a backup if other payment methods become temporarily unavailable.
Basically, central bank digital c ash would act like current ele ctronic payment methods, the only diff erence
being that it would not be tied to a commercial bank the way bank accounts and debit cards are.4
Media Attributions
“Bitcoin, Cryptocurrency, Finance image” by BenjaminNelan, used under the Pixabay license.
4. Bank of Canada. (n.d.). The road to digital money.
130 | 3.9: THE INTERNATIONAL BANKING STRUCTURE

[Page 163]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
• Economics is the study of how individuals, businesses, governments and nations allocate
their limited resources to satisfy their unlimited wants and needs. It is how a society uses
scarce resources to produce and distribute goods and services. The resources of a person, a
firm, or a nation are limited, and in economics, this limitation is known as scarcity.
• In Canada, the government and the free-market system guide the economy together.
• Microeconomics is the study of individuals and business decisions. Macroeconomics looks
at the decisions of countries and governments. These two branches of economics appear to
be different, but in reality, they’re interdependent and complement each other.
• Resources are the inputs used to produce outputs. The circular flow model is simply a way
of depicting how money circulates through the economy from individuals to firms in the
form of labour and buying goods and services. Then, from firms to individuals in the form of
wages and providing goods/services.
• Productivity refers to how efficiently goods and services are being produced.
• A free market economy is an economic system where the laws of supply and demand
determine prices, and the government has limited or no involvement. People decide how to
use factors of production, such as land, labour, capital, and physical resources. In a market
economy, producers decide what to produce, how much to charge, and what to sell.
• A mixed economy is an economic system where some resources are planned for by the
government, while citizens control others. The world’s dominant economic organization is a
mixed economy.
• A planned economy is a system where the state determines production levels and
regulates prices. In a centrally planned economy, the state uses advanced planning
mechanisms to determine production levels, rather than supply and demand.
• Capitalism is an economic system that promotes the creation and ownership of capital and
wealth. A free market system is a capitalist system that focuses on the unfettered exchange
CHAPTER REVIEW | 131

[Page 164]
of goods and services, with little or no interference by the government.
• Socialism is an economic and political system where the means of production are owned by
the public or the state, rather than private individuals. It’s based on the idea that shared
ownership of resources leads to a more equal society. Socialism is generally considered a
planned economy, where the government controls the production of goods and services,
rather than a market economy.
• Communism is a political and economic system that aims to eliminate class struggles by
having the public own the means of production, such as factories and mines. In a communist
society, there is no private property or currency, and wealth is shared equally or based on
need. Communism is not the same as a planned economy, but communism is often
associated with centrally planned economies.
• Economists generally agree there are four different degrees of competition: 1) perfect
competition, 2) monopolistic competition, 3) oligopoly, and 4) monopoly. Porter’s Five Forces
model is used to identify and analyze an industry’s competitive forces. Perfect competition
exists when there are many consumers buying a standardized product from numerous small
businesses. In monopolistic competition, we still have many sellers (as we had under
perfect competition). Now, however, they do not sell identical products. Oligopoly means a
few sellers. In an oligopolistic market, each seller supplies a large portion of all the products
sold in the marketplace. In terms of the number of sellers and degree of competition, a
monopoly lies at the opposite end of the spectrum from perfect competition.
• The law of supply and demand is an economic theory that explains how the relationship
between supply and demand determines prices. When supply is greater than demand, prices
fall, and when demand is greater than supply, prices rise.
• Supply is the quantity of a product that sellers are willing to sell at various prices. The
quantity of a product that a business is willing to sell depends on its price.
• Demand is the quantity of a product that buyers are willing to purchase at various prices.
The quantity of a product that people are willing to buy depends on its price.
• The Equilibrium Price is the state in which market supply and demand balance each other.
• The world’s economies share three main goals: growth, high employment, and price stability.
Economists measure the performance of an economy by looking at GDP, GNP and other
measures.
• The gross domestic product (GDP) is defined as the market value of all goods and
services produced by the economy in a given year.
• Gross national product (GNP) is the value of all products and services produced by the
citizens of a country, both domestically and internationally, minus income earned by foreign
132 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 165]
residents.
• The economic ups and downs resulting from expansion and contraction constitute the
business cycle (also referred to as the industry life cycle). During prosperity, the economy
expands, unemployment is low, incomes rise, and consumers buy more products.
A slowdown in economic activity is called a recession. A recession is followed by a recovery
or expansion in which the economy starts growing again. If, however, a recession lasts a
long time (perhaps a decade or so), while unemployment remains very high and production
is severely curtailed, the economy could sink into a depression.
• Statistics Canada tracks unemployment and reports the unemployment rate—the
percentage of the labour force that is at least 15 years old, unemployed, and actively seeking
work.
• Price stability occurs when the average price for goods and services either does not change
or changes very little. When the overall price level goes up, we have inflation. When the
price level goes down (which rarely happens), we have deflation.
• The consumer price index (CPI) measures the rate of inflation by determining price
changes of a hypothetical basket of goods, such as food, housing, clothing, medical care,
appliances, automobiles, and so forth, bought by a typical household.
• The producer price index (PPI) tracks the average change in prices at the wholesale level
(e.g., raw materials, product components that require further processing, and finished goods
sold to retailers).
• Monetary policy is exercised by the Bank of Canada, which is empowered to take various
actions that decrease or increase the money supply and raise or lower short-term interest
rates, making it harder or easier to borrow money.
• Fiscal policy relies on the government’s powers of spending and taxation. Both taxation
and government spending can be used to reduce or increase the total supply of money in the
economy — the total amount, in other words, that businesses and consumers have to spend.
• The national debt is also referred to as Canada’s public debt. According to the Department
of Finance Canada, Government Debt in Canada increased to CAD 1134.49 billion in 2022 from
CAD 1048.75 billion in 2021.
• Money is anything that is acceptable as payment for goods and services. For money to be
used as a medium of exchange, it must be divisible, portable, durable, and difficult to
counterfeit. M-1 is the narrowest measure, and it includes the most liquid forms of money —
the forms, such as cash and chequing account funds, which are spent immediately. M-2
includes everything in M-1 plus near-cash items invested for the short term — savings
accounts, time deposits and money market mutual funds.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 133

[Page 166]
• The Bank of Canada’s four main areas of responsibility are: monetary policy, financial
systems, currency, and funds management.
• The World Bank is an important source of economic assistance for poor and developing
countries. With backing from wealthy donor countries (such as Canada, the United States,
Japan, Germany, and the United Kingdom), the World Bank provides loans, grants, and
guarantees to some of the world’s poorest nations.
• The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is governed by and accountable to its 191
member countries and has three critical missions: furthering international monetary
cooperation, encouraging the expansion of trade and economic growth, and discouraging
policies that would harm prosperity.
• Currencies are traded in the foreign exchange market. Like any other market, when
something is exchanged, there is a price. In the foreign exchange market, a currency is
bought and sold, and the price of that currency is given in some other currency. That price is
expressed as an exchange rate.
• Digital currencies are currencies that are only accessible with computers or mobile phones
because they only exist in electronic form.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 3: Economics and Banking [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. Unemployment Rate. Visit Statistics Canada and locate the most recent unemployment
reports. Can you find annual employment rates by industry? Which industry has the most
134 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 167]
employment? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
2. Inflation Rate. Visit Statistics Canada and locate the most recent inflation reports. In which
province is inflation rising the fastest? Is the government taking any action to combat rising
inflation rates? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
3. Pros and Cons of Economies. Use the Internet to search the pros and cons of each of the
different types of economies. Which economy makes the most sense to you? Why? Share
your conclusions with the class and/or professor.
4. Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Use the Internet to locate the most recent GDP reports.
Which countries have the highest GDP per capita? What does “per capita” mean? Why is
GDP per capita in developing countries lower as compared to GDP per capita in developed
countries? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
5. Surplus and Shortage. Use the Internet to locate an example in which a surplus of a
product led to decreased prices. Similarly, locate an example in which a shortage of a product
led to increased prices. What eventually happened in each case? Share your findings with the
class and/or professor.
6. Government Assistance. Use the Internet to locate an example in which the government
(Canadian or U.S.) provided funds in assistance to a business. Is the government supporting
businesses by providing funds consistent with a free market system? Explain how this might
distort the system. Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
7. Economic Indicators. Explain how current inflation and unemployment rates affect you
personally. Explain how they may affect you as a manager. Share your thoughts with the
class and/or professor.
8. Government Roles. The government plays a variety of roles in the Canadian mixed
economy. Use the Internet to locate an example of when the government has been a
customer, a regulator, a taxation agent, and a provider of services. Discuss with the class
and/or professor whether government involvement in each role is excessive, or about right.
What criteria did you use to make your assessments?
9. Getting Acquainted with Canadian Banks. Visit the website of a bank that is near where
you are located. Locate the current interest rates on investments as well as on loans. What
are the latest bank policies shared on the website? What other kinds of information does the
website provide? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
10. Competitive Analysis. Use Porter’s Five Forces analysis to analyze the competitive
positions of any one of the following companies: Toyota, Walmart, First Choice Hair Cutters,
Canadian Tire, or Cara Foods. Describe the five forces and how they affect the company’s
operations and strategies. Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 135

[Page 168]
11. Monetary Policy Simulation: You’re in Control. How would it feel to be in control of the
monetary policy of a country? Play MoPoS, the Monetary Policy Simulation Game. Download
the game, then play. You will act out the role of a fictitious central bank by implementing
monetary policy in a simple virtual economy, all the while observing the limitations of
monetary policy. Write a brief summary of your experience. What did you learn from playing
the simulation? Share your summary with your class and/or professor.
12. Supply and Demand Simulation. Visit the Lemonade Stand Free Trial game. Using
information you learned in this chapter, write a brief summary about your experience as an
entrepreneur dealing with economic factors of supply and demand and environmental
conditions that may impact your business. Consider how much revenue you made each time
you played the game and the reasons for your business success or failure. Share your
summary with your class and/or professor.
13. Fiscal Policy Game. This game, The Fiscal Ship, allows you to practice your decision-making
as it pertains to fiscal policy based on the U.S. economy. Give it a try by visiting the Federal
Reserve Bank of St. Louis website. What did you learn? Was it difficult to make the right
decisions to help put the Fiscal Ship on the right course? Share your thoughts about the
game with your class and/or professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Economics and Banking Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=130#h5p-6
136 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 169]
Additional Resources
• Markets, Efficiency, and Price Signals: Crash Course Economics. YouTube Video.
• The Free Market: Competition, Monopolies, and the Dynamics of Innovation. YouTube Video.
• What is a Monopoly? YouTube Video.
• Economy: What It Is, Types of Economies, Economic Indicators
• The Business Cycle: Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply. Khan Academy, YouTube
Video.
• Factors of Production, AP Microeconomics, Khan Academy, YouTube Video.
• Labour Statistics: Statistics Canada
• How Much Federal Debt is Too Much For Canada? CBC News 2023, YouTube Video.
• Bank of Canada website
• Inflation calculator
• Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and Government Revenue Explained in One Minute. YouTube
Video.
• Unemployment Rate and the Labor Force Participation Rate Compared in One Minute.
YouTube Video.
• Difference Between Micro and Macro Economics. YouTube Video.
• Circular Flow Model: Definition and Calculation
• What is Productivity?
• Economics Games to Play!
• BANK! Apple App Game
• Imports, Exports, and Exchange Rates: Crash Course Economics. YouTube Video.
• Difference Between Micro and Macro Economics (with examples), YouTube Video.
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 137

[Page 170]
138 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 171]
CHAPTER 4: GLOBAL BUSINESS
CHAPTER 4: GLOBAL BUSINESS | 139

[Page 172]
140 | CHAPTER 4: GLOBAL BUSINESS

[Page 173]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Do y ou w ear Nike shoes or Timberland boots? Listen to Bey oncé, Pitbull, T wenty One Pilots, or The
Neighborhood on Spotify? If you answered yes to either of these questions, you’re a global business customer.
Both Nike and Timberland manufacture most of their products overseas. Spotify is a Swedish enterprise.
Why is international business important? Wh y do c ompanies and nations engage in international trade?
What strategies do they emp loy in the glob al marketplace? How do go vernments and international agencies
promote and regulate international trade? These questions and others will be addresse d in this chapter. Let’s
start by looking at the more specific reasons why companies and nations engage in international trade.
Learning Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
1. Use the concepts of absolute and comparative advantage to explain why nations participate
in international trade.
2. Evaluate the economic impacts of the concepts of balance of trade and balance of payments
on world trade.
3. Distinguish between the various opportunities available to businesses operating
internationally, including importing and exporting, licensing and franchising, contract
manufacturing and outsourcing, strategic alliances, and joint ventures.
4. Identify the characteristics of various types of international business organizations, including
foreign direct investments, subsidiaries, mergers, and multinational companies.
5. Recognize how economic and legal differences between countries create challenges to
successful business dealings.
6. Use Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions to describe how cultural differences between countries
create challenges to successful business dealings.
7. Discuss the various initiatives designed to reduce international trade barriers and promote
free trade.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 141

[Page 174]
4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE?
Globalization refers to the e conomic and social integration betw een c ountries and the inc reased flow of
goods, services, and people across borders.
The globalization of business is bound to affect you. Not only will you buy products manufactured overseas,
but it’s likely that y ou’ll meet and w ork with individuals from v arious countries and cultures as customers,
suppliers, colleagues, employees, or emp loyers. The bottom line is that the glob alization of w orld commerce
has an impact on all of us, as evidenced in Figure 4.1: The Expanded Circular Flow Model. Therefore, it makes
sense to learn more about how globalization works.
Figure 4.1: The expanded circular flow—Firms, government, households, financial markets, rest of the world.
[See image description.]
Nations trade to c apitalize on their unique adv antages and to f oster e conomic gro wth, enhanc e living
142 | 4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE?

[Page 175]
standards, and build relationships with other countries. Trade allows countries to access products and services
they cannot produce efficiently or lack altogether, enhancing c onsumer choice and quality of lif e. Tropical
fruits are imported by colder countries like Canada because they cannot be grown domestically. By producing
for e xport, businesses c an achiev e e conomies of sc ale, lo wering production c osts and making goods more
affordable domestically and abroad. Automotive manufacturers in Germany produce vehicles on a large scale,
selling them globally. Trade fosters innovation and the spread of new technologies, ideas, and practices, driving
development and c ompetitive advantage. Collaboration in international te chnology markets has ac celerated
advancements in renew able energy. Trade builds interdependenc e, re ducing the likelihood of c onflicts and
fostering diplomatic relations. For example, the European Union promotes trade among its member states to
strengthen regional stability and cooperation. Exporting goods and services generates income, creates jobs, and
boosts the national gross domestic product (GDP). The export of oil and gas has been a significant contributor
to Canada’s economic growth.
Why does Canada import automobiles, ste el, digital phones, and apparel from other countries? Why don’t
we just make them ourselves? Why do other countries buy wheat, chemicals, machinery, and lumber products
from us? This is be cause no national e conomy produc es all the goods and servic es that its pe ople ne ed.
Countries are importers when they buy goods and servic es from other c ountries; when they sell products to
other nations, they’re exporters. In 2023, the total value of world trade in merchandise and commercial services
was $30.5 trillion, a 2% de crease from the previous y ear. This w as due to a 5% de cline in the v alue of goods
trade, while the value of services trade increased by 9%. 1
Factors that have impacted trade in recent years include:2
• The war in Ukraine
• High inflation
• Tightening monetary policy in major economies
• High energy prices
• Rising interest rates
• Geopolitical tensions
• Food and energy insecurity
• Increased risk of financial instability
• High levels of external debt
1. WTO. (n.d.). World Trade statistics 2023: Key insights and trends. World Trade Organization.
2. WTO. (2024). Chapter III: World trade and economic growth, 2022-23 [PDF]. In World Trade statistical review 2023. World Trade Organization.
4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE? | 143

[Page 176]
Absolute and Comparative Advantage
To understand why certain countries import or export specific products, you need to realize that every country
(or region) cannot produce the same products. The cost of labour, the availability of natural resources, and the
level of know-how vary greatly around the world. Most economists use the concepts of absolute advantage and
comparative advantage to explain why countries import some products and export others.
Absolute Advantage
A nation has an absolute advantage if (1) it’s the only source of a particular product, or (2) it can make more
of a product using f ewer resources than other c ountries. Because of climate and soil c onditions, for example,
France had an abso lute advantage in wine making until its dominanc e of w orldwide wine production w as
challenged by the growing wine industries in Italy, Spain, the United States, and, more recently, Canada. Unless
an absolute advantage is b ased on some limite d natural resourc e, it seldom lasts. That’s wh y there are f ew, if
any, examples of absolute advantage in the world today.
Comparative Advantage
When a c ountry de cides to spe cialize in a p articular product, it must sac rifice the production of another
product (opportunity c osts). Countries benefit from spe cialization—focusing on what they do best, and
trading the output to other c ountries for what those c ountries do best. Canada ’s top export destinations are
the United States, China, and the United Kingdom. In 2023, the United States was the destination for 76% of
Canada’s exports.3
Canada’s energy e xports make up 22% of its total e xports. In 2023, the top e xports in this c ategory were
mineral fuels, oils, and distillation products. Cars and p arts are one of Canada ’s biggest e xports, making up
19% of its total exports. In 2023, the top exports in this category were vehicles other than railway and tramway.
Consumer goods make up 12% of Canada ’s total e xports. Canada e xports a v ariety of minerals, including
potash, metallurgical coal, and diamonds. In 2022, Canada was the world’s biggest exporter of potash. Canada
also exports machinery, nuclear reactors, boilers, pearls, precious stones, metals, and coins.4
The United States, for instance, is increasingly an exporter of knowledge-based products, such as softw are,
movies, music, and prof essional services (management consulting, financial services, and so f orth). America’s
colleges and universities, therefore, are a source of comparative advantage, and students from all over the world
3. Trading Economics. (n.d.). Canada exports.
4. Trading Economics. (n.d.). Canada exports by category.
144 | 4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE?

[Page 177]
come to the United States for the world’s best higher-education system. France and Italy are centers for fashion
and luxury goods and are leading e xporters of wine, perfume, and designer clothing. Jap an’s engine ering
expertise has given it an edge in such fields as automobiles and consumer electronics. And with large numbers
of highly skilled graduates in technology, India has become the world’s leader in low-cost, computer-software
engineering.
How can we predict, for any given country, which products will be made and so ld at home, which will
be importe d, and which will be e xported? This question c an be answ ered b y loo king at the c oncept of
comparative advantage, which e xists when a c ountry can produce a product at a lo wer opportunity c ost
compared to another nation. But what’s an opportunity cost?
Opportunity Costs
Since resources are limite d, every time y ou make a choic e about ho w to use them, y ou are also choosing to
forego other options. Economists use the term opportunity cost to indicate what must be given up to obtain
something that is desired. A fundamental principle of economics is that every choice has an opportunity cost.
• If you sleep through your economics class (not recommended, by the way), the opportunity cost is the
learning you miss.
• If you spend your income on video games, you cannot spend it on movies.
• If you choose to marry one person, you give up the opportunity to marry anyone else.
In short, opportunity costs are all around us. The idea behind opportunity c ost is that the c ost of one item is
the lost opportunity to do or c onsume something else; in short, opportunity c ost is the value of the next best
alternative. Since people and businesses must choose, they inevitably face trade-offs in which they must give up
things they desire to get other things they desire more.
Opportunity Cost and Individual Decisions
In some cases, recognizing the opportunity c ost can alter personal beha viour. Imagine, for example, that you
spend $10 on lunch ev ery day at w ork. You may know perfectly well that bringing lunch from home w ould
cost only $3 a day, so the opportunity cost of buying lunch at the restaurant is $7 each day (that is, the $10 that
buying lunch costs minus the $3 your lunch from home would cost). Seven dollars each day does not seem to
be that much. However, if you project what that adds up to in a year—250 workdays a year × $7 per day equals
$1,750—it is the cost, perhaps, of a decent vacation. If the opportunity cost were described as “a nice vacation”
instead of “$7 a day,” you might make different choices.
Opportunity Cost and Societal Decisions
Opportunity cost also c omes into p lay with societal de cisions. These trade-offs also arise with go vernment
4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE? | 145

[Page 178]
policies. For example, after the terrorist p lane hijackings on September 11, 2001, man y proposals, such as the
following, were made to improve air travel safety in the United States:
• The federal government could provide armed “sky marshals” who would travel inconspicuously with the
rest of the passengers. The cost of having a sky marshal on every flight would be roughly $3 billion per
year.
• Retrofitting all U.S. planes with reinforced cockpit doors to make it harder for terrorists to take over the
plane would have a price tag of $450 million.
• Buying more sophisticated security equipment for airports, like three-dimensional baggage scanners and
cameras linked to face-recognition software, would cost another $2 billion.
Lost time can be a significant component of opportunity cost.
However, the single biggest cost of greater airline security does not involve money. It is the opportunity cost
of additional waiting time at the airport. According to the United States Department of Transportation, more
than 800 million p assengers took plane trips in the Unite d States in 2012. Sinc e the 9/11 hijackings, se curity
screening has become more intensive, and consequently, the procedure takes longer than in the p ast. Say that,
on average, each air passenger spends an extra 30 minutes in the airport per trip . Economists commonly place
a value on time to c onvert an opportunity cost in time into a monetary figure. Be cause many air travellers are
relatively highly p aid business pe ople, conservative estimates set the a verage “price of time” f or air tra vellers
at $20 per hour. Ac cordingly, the opportunity c ost of dela ys in airports c ould be as much as 800 million
(passengers) × 0.5 hours × $20/hour, or $8 billion per y ear. Clearly, the opportunity costs of waiting time can
be just as substantial as costs involving direct spending.
Media Attributions
“Figure 4.1: The Exp anded Circular Flo w: Firms, Go vernment, Households, Financial M arkets, Rest of the
World” is adapted from Chapter 4: Business in a Glob al Environment in Introduction to Canadian Business,
© Business Faculty from Ontario Co lleges and eCampusOntario Program M anagers, licensed under CC BYNC-SA.
146 | 4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE?

[Page 179]
Image descriptions
Figure 4.1
A flowchart depicting economic interactions between different sectors: Rest of the World is at the centre top;
on the middle level is Households, Government, and Firms; Financial Markets is at the centre bottom of chart.
Each entity is represente d by a c olored box with grey arro ws illustrating the flo w of e conomic activities
between each entity.
“Households” interacts with “Government” through “Taxes” and receive back “Wages, Interest & Transfer
Payments,” Households also interact with “Firms” via “Expenditures on Goods and Services”
“Firms” deal with “Go vernment” via “Business Taxes” and re ceive back “Purchases of Goods & Servic es,”
“Firms” also deal with “Households” by “Payment of Wages, Rent, Interest, and Profit.”
“Financial Markets” interact with “Households” through “Saving” and provide “Payment of Wages, Rent,
Interest, and Profit” to “Government” and “Borrowing for investment” to “Firms.”
The “Rest of the W orld” re ceives through “Expenditures b y Domestic Househo lds on Imports ” from
Households and sends “Expenditures by Foreign Households on Domestic Goods and Servic es (Exports)” to
“Firms.”
[back to figure]
4.1: WHY DO NATIONS TRADE? | 147

[Page 180]
4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN
NATIONS
To evaluate the nature and c onsequences of its international trade, a nation loo ks at tw o key indic ators: the
balance of trade and the balance of payments.
Balance of Trade
A country’s balance of trade is calculated by subtracting the value of its imports from the value of its exports.
If a country sells more products than it buys, it has a favourable balance, called a trade surplus. If it buys more
than it sells, it has an unfavourable balance, or a trade deficit.
In 2023, the value of Canada’s annual merchandise exports decreased 1.4% to $768.2 billion, while the value
of annual imports rose 1.4% to $770.2 billion. 1
Between 1980 and 2008, Canada re corded a positiv e trade
balance every year, with the e xception of 1991 and 1992. From 2009 on wards, the trade b alance shifted to a
deficit. In 2021, it switched again to a trade surp lus, with energy products making the largest share of e xports
(refer to Figure 4.2). The Unite d States remains the c ountry’s biggest trading p artner.2
Other countries, such
as China and Taiwan, which manufacture high volumes for export, have large trade surpluses because they sell
far more goods overseas than they buy.

1. Statistics Canada. (2024, May 9). Canadian international merchandise trade: Annual review 2023.
2. Trading Economics. (n.d.). Canada balance of trade.
148 | 4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN NATIONS

[Page 181]
Figure 4.2: Exports and imports stabilize in 2023. [See image description.]
Deficits
A national deficit occurs when a government spends more money than it receives in revenue over a period of
time. This can be due to a number of factors, including excessive spending or borrowing. A nation’s deficit can
be an indicator of its financial health and economic situation.
Are trade deficits a bad thing? Not necessarily. They can be positive if a country’s economy is strong enough
both to keep growing and to generate the jobs and inc omes that permit its citizens to buy the best the w orld
has to off er. That w as c ertainly the c ase in Canada in the 1990s and early 2000s. Some e xperts, ho wever,
are alarme d b y trade deficits. In vestment guru W arren Buffett, f or e xample, c autions that no c ountry c an
continuously sustain large and burge oning trade deficits. Wh y not? Be cause creditor nations will ev entually
stop taking IOUs from debtor nations, and when that happens, the national spending spree will have to cease.
4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN NATIONS | 149

[Page 182]
“A nation’s c redit c ard,” he w arns, “charges truly breathtaking amounts. But that c ard’s c redit line is not
limitless”.3
Surpluses
A country has a trade surplus when it sells more to other countries than it buys from them. It’s the opposite
of a trade deficit. A surplus can lead to economic growth and employment, but it can also cause higher prices,
interest rates, and a more expensive currency.
Trade surp luses aren’t ne cessarily good f or a nation’s c onsumers. F or e xample, Jap an’s e xport-fueled
economy produced high e conomic growth in the 1970s and 1980s, but most domestic ally made c onsumer
goods were priced at artificially high lev els inside Jap an itself—so high, in f act, that man y Japanese travelled
overseas to buy the electronics and other high-quality goods on which Japanese trade was dependent.
CD players and televisions were significantly cheaper in Honolulu or Los Angeles than in Tokyo. How did
this situation come about? Though Japan manufactures a variety of goods, many of them are made for export.
To secure shares in international markets, Japan prices its exported goods competitively. Inside Japan, because
competition is limite d, producers can put artificially high pric es on Jap anese-made goods. Due to a number
of factors (high demand f or a limite d supply of importe d goods, high shipping and distribution c osts, and
other costs incurred by importers in a nation that tends to protect its own industries), imported goods are also
expensive.4
Today, Japan may not be as expensive as you think. While prices for certain goods and services are generally
higher than you’d find in countries like China, Thailand, and Vietnam, on the whole, you might discover that
costs are lower than in places such as Singapore, Australia, and Scandinavia.5
Balance of Payments
The second key measure of the eff ectiveness of international trade is balance of p ayments—the difference,
over a period of time, betw een the total flo w of money c oming into a c ountry and the total flo w of money
going out. As in its b alance of trade, the biggest f actor in a c ountry’s balance of p ayments is the money that
flows as a result of imports and exports. But the balance of payments includes other cash inflows and outflows,
such as c ash received from or p aid for foreign investment, loans, tourism, military e xpenditures, and f oreign
3. Buffet, W. E., & Loomis, C. (2003, No vember 10). America’s growing trade deficit is selling the nation out from under us. Here’s a w ay to fix the
problem–and we need to do it now. Fortune.
4. Anonymous. (n.d.). Why are prices in Japan so damn high? The Japan FAQ.com.
5. Boutique Japan. (2024, June 7). Is Japan expensive?
150 | 4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN NATIONS

[Page 183]
aid. For example, if a Canadian c ompany buys some real estate in a f oreign country, that in vestment counts
in the Canadian balance of payments, but not in its balance of trade, which measures only import and e xport
transactions. In the long run, having an unfavourable balance of payments can negatively affect the stability of
a country’s currency. Canada has experienced unfavourable balances of payments since the turn of the century,
which has forced the government to cover its debt by borrowing from other countries.
The national debt is the c ombined debt of all thre e levels of go vernment in Canada: f ederal, provincial,
and territorial. The debt is held b y a v ariety of entities, including the Canadian pub lic, f oreigners, b anks,
trust and loan companies, and insurance companies. The balance of payments is comprised of three accounts:
the current ac count, the c apital ac count, and the financial ac count. In 2023, the current ac count of the
Government of Canada poste d a $17.8 billion deficit, up $7.4 billion c ompared with 2022. 6
The increase in
the deficit was largely due to the trade in goods balance going from a surplus of $19.7 billion in 2022 to a deficit
of $1.8 billion in 2023.7
Below are a few interesting facts about who owes money to whom:
• As of 2021, China owed Canada $371 million in loans it incurred decades ago, and is not expected to
repay them in full until 2045.8
• As of 2024, Pakistan owed China $26.6 billion for money borrowed for infrastructure and energy
projects.9
• The United States boasts both the world’s biggest national debt in terms of dollar amount and its largest
economy, which translates to a debt-to-GDP ratio of approximately 121.31%. The United States
government’s spending has exceeded its income for most years, and the U.S. has not had a budget
surplus since 2001.10
• Japan, China, the United Kingdom, Belgium, and Luxembourg own the most U.S. debt, in that order.11
6. IMF Data Ac cess. (2025, January 23). Balance of pa yments a nd i nternational i nvestment positi on statisti cs (BOP/IIP) – Ba lance of pa yments:
Current, capital and financial accounts for Canada.
7. Statistics Canada. (2024, February 28). Canada’s balance of international payments, fourth quarter 2023.
8. Lim, J. (2021, January 4). China still owes Canada $371 million in decades-old debt. Ipolitics
9. The Economic Times. (2024, August 28). These countries owe the most debt to China, is yours one of them?
10. Word Population Review. (n.d.). National debt by country/countries with the highest national debt in 2024.
11. Word Population Review. (n.d.). National debt by country/countries with the highest national debt 2024.
4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN NATIONS | 151

[Page 184]
Media Attributions
Figure 4.2: Exports and imports stabilize in 2023. (Source: Statistics Canada, b ased on Table 12-10-0011-01,
2024, May 9. Reproduc ed and distribute d on an “as is ” basis with the permission of Statistics Canada.), ©
Statistics Canada, licensed under Statistics Canada Open license.
Image Descriptions
Figure 4.2
A bar and line grap h with a v ertical axis representing millions of current do llars, ranging from -100,000 to
800,000 and a horizontal axis showing the years from 2009 to 2023.
A red line represents the merchandise trade balance, which fluctuates slightly above and below zero.
Dark blue bars represent imports while lighter blue bars indicate exports. The value of imports and exports
are similar, but imports are c onsistently higher in most y ears, except 2014 and 2022. The grap h indicates a
general increase in both exports and imports over time, with slight fluctuations in the trade balance line.
Notes below the graph are
• Note(s): Data are on a balance-of-payments basis.
• Source(s): Table 12-10-0011-01.
[back to figure]
152 | 4.2: MEASURING TRADE BETWEEN NATIONS

[Page 185]
4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS
The f act that nations e xchange billions of do llars in goods and servic es each y ear demonstrates that
international trade makes good e conomic sense. For a company wishing to e xpand beyond national borders,
there are a v ariety of w ays it c an get in volved in international business. Let’s take a closer loo k at the more
popular ones.
Importing and Exporting
Importing (buying products o verseas and reselling them in one’s o wn c ountry) and exporting (selling
domestic products to f oreign customers) are the o ldest and most prev alent forms of international trade. F or
many companies, importing is the primary link to the global market. American food and beverage wholesalers,
for instance, import the bottled waters Evian and Fiji from their sources in the French Alps and the Fiji Islands
respectively f or resale in U.S. supermarkets. 1
Other c ompanies get into the glob al arena b y identifying an
international market f or their products and be coming exporters. The Chinese, f or instance, are f ond of f ast
foods cooked in soybean oil. They also have an increasing appetite for meat. Therefore, they need high-protein
soybeans to raise liv estock. The Unite d States e xported $15.06 billion w orth of so ybeans to China in 2023,
making it the top destination for U.S. soybean exports.2
A few reasons why companies may engage in importing include:
• Importing to reduce costs, as importing may be more affordable than producing the same product
locally.
• Importing new products before competitors in an attempt to become a leader in the industry.
• Importing non-core products allows businesses to focus on their specialties. For instance, a company
might specialize in manufacturing brake pads for cars while relying on other companies or countries to
supply the remaining car parts.
• Importing increases competition for domestic products. Companies may import products from other
1. Fine Waters. (n.d). Evian; Fine Waters. (n.d). FIJI Water.
2. USDA. (2024). U.S. soybean exports in 2023.
4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS | 153

[Page 186]
countries to compete with other businesses selling domestic products.
A few reasons why companies may engage in exporting include:
• Exporting can help a company reach new markets or expand in existing markets, and increase sales and
profits.
• Exporting can spread business risk by diversifying into multiple markets instead of one domestic market.
• Exporting can improve a company’s competitiveness against both domestic and international
competitors.
• Exporting can lead to enhanced innovation and the acquisition of new skills.
• Exporting can help boost a company’s profile and credibility.
• Exporting may allow a company to take advantage of trade agreements with reduced trade barriers.
• Exporting can help a company manage seasonal product use and market fluctuations.
• Exporting may allow a company to take advantage of exchange rates, depending on which currency is at
a higher rate.
When goods are shipped from one country to another, they must go through customs. Customs is the process
of declaring and p aying taxes on importe d goods. All c ountries have different regulations f or what c an and
cannot be imported. Some items, such as drugs or weapons, are prohibited because they are dangerous. Other
items, such as used tires or chemicals, are restricted because they may harm the environment. The purpose of
customs is to protect a country’s economy, environment, jobs, and residents.
154 | 4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

[Page 187]
Star Wars Lego licensing
Licensing and Franchising
A company that wants to get into an international
market quickly while taking only limited financial and
legal risks might c onsider lic ensing agre ements with
foreign c ompanies. An international lic ensing
agreement allows a foreign company (the licensee) to
sell the products of a producer (the licensor) or to use
its intellectual property (such as p atents, trademarks,
copyrights) in e xchange for what is kno wn as ro yalty
fees. Here’s ho w it w orks: Y ou o wn a c ompany in
Canada that sells c offee-flavoured popc orn. Y ou’re
sure that your product would be a big hit in Japan, but
you don’t have the resources to set up a factory or sales
office in that c ountry. You c an’t make the popc orn
here and ship it to Japan because it would get stale. So,
you enter into a lic ensing agreement with a Jap anese
company that allo ws y our lic ensee to manuf acture
coffee-flavoured popc orn using y our spe cial proc ess
and to sell it in Jap an under y our brand name. In
exchange, the Jap anese licensee would pay you a ro yalty fee — perhaps a perc entage of each sale or a fix ed
amount per unit.
The best way to understand lic ensing is to think about something that a c ompany owns that they agre e to
sell to another company to use, either locally or globally. For example, Lego, a company that produces building
block toys, had to get a lic ense from companies like Disney when they w anted to create their Star Wars Lego
sets.
Another popular w ay to e xpand o verseas is to sell franchises. Under an international franc hise
agreement, a c ompany (the franchiser) grants a f oreign company (the franchise e) the right to use its brand
name and to sell its products or servic es. The franchisee is responsible for all operations but agre es to operate
according to a business model established by the franchiser. In turn, the franchiser usually provides advertising,
training, and new-product assistanc e. Franchising is a natural f orm of glob al expansion for companies that
operate domestically according to a franchise model, including restaurant chains, such as M cDonald’s and
Kentucky Fried Chicken, and hotel chains, such as Ho liday Inn and Best W estern. Unlike franchising in the
franchisor’s home country, where the franchisor grants the franchisee a license to use the marketing, branding
and operations of the franchisor, international franchising usually involves actually selling the franchise rights
4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS | 155

[Page 188]
to a third party to operate as the master franchisee in that area, giving them the rights to open company-owned
outlets and sub-franchise in the country or region.3
Contract Manufacturing and Outsourcing
Canadian c ompanies are inc reasingly dra wing on a v ast supp ly of relativ ely ine xpensive skille d labour to
perform various business servic es, such as softw are development, accounting, and claims proc essing. This is
known as outsourcing. In contrast, contract manufacturing is a specific type of outsourcing related specifically
to products when two parties sign a contract manufacturing agreement.
Because of high domestic labour c osts, many U.S. and Canadian companies manufacture their products in
countries where labour c osts are lower. This arrangement is c alled international contract manufacturing,
a form of outsourcing. A domestic c ompany might c ontract with a loc al company in a f oreign country to
manufacture one of its products. It will, ho wever, retain control of product design and dev elopment and put
its own label on the finished product. Contract manufacturing is quite common in the U.S. apparel business,
with most American brands being made in a number of Asian countries, including China, Vietnam, Indonesia,
and India.4
Thanks to tw enty-first-century inf ormation te chnology, non-manuf acturing functions c an also be
outsourced to nations with lower labour costs. Canadian companies are increasingly drawing on a vast supply
of relatively ine xpensive skille d labour to perf orm v arious business servic es, such as softw are development,
accounting, and claims processing. With a large, well-educated population with English language skills, India
has become a centre for software development and customer call centres. In the case of India, the attraction is
not only a large pool of knowledge workers but also significantly lower wages.
Strategic Alliances and Joint Ventures
A strategic allianc e is an agre ement between two companies (or a c ompany and a nation) to poo l resources
in order to achiev e business goals that benefit both p artners. A strategic allianc e and a joint v enture are both
collaborative business arrangements between companies, but they differ in structure, commitment, and goals.
3. Franchise Company. (n.d.). International franchising.
4. Gereffi, G., & Frederick, S. (2010). The global apparel value chain, trade and the crisis: Challenges and opportunities for developing countries. Policy
Research Working Paper 5281. World Bank Group.
156 | 4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

[Page 189]
Nike+ iPod strategic alliance
Strategic Alliance
What if a company wants to do business in a foreign country but lacks the expertise or resources? Or what if the
target nation’s government doesn’t allow foreign companies to operate within its borders unless it has a loc al
partner? In these cases, a firm might enter a strategic alliance with a local company or even with the government
itself.
A strategic alliance is an agreement between two
companies (or a c ompany and a nation) to poo l
resources in order to achiev e business go als that
benefit both partners. Alliances range in scope from
informal cooperative agreements to joint ventures—
alliances in which the partners fund a separate entity
(perhaps a p artnership or a c orporation) to manage
their joint operation.
An alliance can serve a number of purposes:
• Enhancing marketing efforts
• Building sales and market share
• Improving products
• Reducing production and distribution costs
• Sharing technology
• Sharing risks
With a strategic allianc e, c ompanies remain legally
independent, and the f ocus is on sharing resourc es,
knowledge, and access to markets. The agre ement is
typically less binding and easier to dissolve compared
to a joint v enture. An e xample of a strategic allianc e is Starbucks and P epsiCo p artnering to market and
distribute Starbucks-brande d ready-to-drink bev erages glob ally. Strategic allianc es are use d to enter new
markets, share technological expertise, or achieve cost efficiencies without significant financial or operational
commitment.
A few examples of a strategic e quity alliance (one company buys equity in the other, or both buy e quity in
each other) are given below:
• One prominent example of a successful strategic partnership is the partnership between Apple and Nike.
This collaboration brought together Apple’s technological expertise and Nike’s extensive knowledge in
sports and fitness. Through this partnership, they created the Nike+ iPod, a product that revolutionized
4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS | 157

[Page 190]
the way people track their workouts using their iPod and Nike shoes.5
• Tesla and Panasonic formed a strategic alliance to build Tesla’s Gigafactory, a large-scale battery
manufacturing plant in the United States. This collaboration focuses on producing lithium-ion batteries
to support Tesla’s electric vehicles (EVs) and energy storage products. Under the agreement, Tesla
manages the land, buildings, and utilities for the Gigafactory, while Panasonic manufactures and
supplies cylindrical lithium-ion cells. Panasonic also invests in production equipment and machinery. By
co-locating suppliers and optimizing manufacturing processes, this partnership aims to reduce battery
costs through economies of scale. The Gigafactory’s output supports Tesla’s goal of producing massmarket EVs, such as the Model 3, and lowering energy storage costs across applications. The alliance
highlights the strategic benefit of combining Tesla’s EV expertise with Panasonic’s battery technology to
advance sustainable energy solutions and the EV market.6
Non-equity strategic alliance is when two companies share resources and proprietary information. An example
of this is betw een SkipTheDishes and restaurants ac ross Canada to off er food delivery services. Restaurants
do not share long-term go als or proprietary inf ormation with SkipTheDishes. The relationship is primarily
transactional. Restaurants gain access to a delivery platform and customer base, while SkipTheDishes expands
its offerings.
Joint Venture
A joint venture involves two or more companies forming a new, independent legal entity to pursue a specific
business obje ctive or proje ct. The c ompanies share o wnership, profits, risks, and go vernance in the newly
created entity. This typic ally involves significant capital investment and a long-term c ommitment. The joint
venture ends when the proje ct or objective is completed unless extended by the parties. An example of a joint
venture is Sony Ericsson, which w as the resulting c ompany formed by Sony and Ericsson to produc e mobile
phones (eventually acquired by Sony). Another prime e xample of a joint v enture is the p artnership between
NASA and Google, which c reated the business Google E arth. Another e xample is SIA and T ATA, which
ventured into forming Vistara Airlines out of India. Joint ventures are used when there are large-scale, resourceintensive projects, entering highly regulate d markets, or poo ling expertise for mutual benefit. Ref er to Table
4.1 for a comparison of the key differences between strategic alliances and joint ventures.
5. Escott, I. (2023, September 7). Strategic partnership types, benefits, & how to find partners. Respona
6. Tesla. (2014, July 31). Panasonic and Tesla sign agreement for the Gigafactory [Press Release]. Global Newswire.
158 | 4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS

[Page 191]
Table 4.1: Key differences between strategic alliance and joint venture
Aspect Strategic Alliance Joint Venture
Legal
Structure No new entity formed New independent entity created
Commitment Flexible and less binding Long-term and formal
commitment
Risk and
Control
Risks and control are
individual
Shared risks, profits, and
governance
Duration Typically short to medium
term Often long-term
Examples Co-branding agreements,
research collaborations
Infrastructure projects, product
development partnerships
Media Attributions
“Lego, Stormtrooper, Cycling image.” by aitoff, used under the Pixabay license.
“Sports, Nike, Sneakers image” by Abiris, used under the Pixabay license.
4.3: OPPORTUNITIES IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS | 159

[Page 192]
4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
ORGANIZATIONS
Foreign Direct Investment and Subsidiaries
Foreign Direct Investment
Many of the appro aches to glob al e xpansion that w e’ve discusse d so f ar allo w c ompanies to p articipate in
international markets without in vesting in f oreign plants and f acilities. As markets e xpand, however, a firm
might decide to enhance its competitive advantage by making a direct investment in operations conducted in
another country. Foreign direct investment (FDI) refers to the formal establishment of business operations
on foreign soil—the building of f actories, sales offices, and distribution netw orks to serv e local markets in a
nation other than the c ompany’s home c ountry. On the other hand, offshoring oc curs when facilities set up
in a foreign country replace Canadian manufacturing facilities and are used to produce goods that will be sent
back to Canada for sale.
FDI is generally the most e xpensive c ommitment that a firm c an make to an o verseas market, and it’s
typically driv en b y the size and attractiv eness of the target market. F or e xample, German and Jap anese
automakers, such as BMW , M ercedes, Toyota, and Honda, ha ve made serious c ommitments to the U.S.
market: most of the cars and trucks that they build in plants in the South and Midwest are destined for sale in
the United States.
Subsidiary
A common form of FDI is the f oreign subsidiary: an independent c ompany owned by a f oreign firm (called
the p arent). This appro ach to going international not only giv es the p arent c ompany full ac cess to loc al
markets but also exempts it from any laws or regulations that ma y hamper the activities of f oreign firms. The
parent c ompany has tight c ontrol o ver the operations of a subsidiary , but while senior managers from the
parent company often oversee operations, many managers and employees are citizens of the host country. Not
surprisingly, most very large firms have foreign subsidiaries. IBM and Coc a-Cola, for example, have both had
success in the Jap anese market through their f oreign subsidiaries (IBM, Jap an and Coc a-Cola, Japan). FDI
goes in the other direction, too, and many companies operating in the United States are in fact subsidiaries of
foreign firms. Gerber Products, for example, is a subsidiary of the Swiss company Novartis, while H Mart stores
160 | 4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 193]
in Ontario and British Co lumbia are Korean-theme d groc ery stores belonging to the Hanahreum Group ,
which is a Korean-American supermarket chain headquartered in New Jersey, USA.
Foreign Acquisition
Walmart Example of Both FDI And Subsidiary
The acquisition of a foreign company by a domestic company is considered a form of foreign direct investment
(FDI). When a company based in one country acquires a substantial ownership stake (typically 10% or more)
in a business located in another country, it qualifies as FDI. The key feature of FDI is that it involves not only
capital transfer but also control or significant influence over the foreign entity’s operations.
Walmart and Flip kart formed a signific ant business relationship when W almart acquired a 77% ma jority
stake in Flip kart f or $16 billion in 2018. This mo ve marke d Walmart’s entry into India ’s burge oning ecommerce market, which is among the f astest-growing in the w orld. Ho wever, this is not a joint v enture
but rather an ac quisition, as W almart gaine d c ontrol of Flip kart while maintaining the e xisting brand and
operations of the Indian company.
Flipkart is a leading e-c ommerce p latform in India, and the ac quisition allo wed Walmart to estab lish a
foothold in India ’s online retail market to c ompete against Amazon. W almart leveraged Flipkart’s extensive
logistics netw ork while also app lying its o wn e xpertise to enhanc e supp ly chain efficienc y and impro ve
customer satisfaction. Flip kart benefited from W almart’s resources and glob al reach, including its financial
strength and te chnological c apabilities, while W almart tappe d into Flip kart’s loc al market e xpertise and
established customer base. Walmart had to navigate India’s restrictions on foreign direct investment in multibrand retail. The deal was structured to comply with these laws, ensuring Flipkart’s operations could continue
while adapting to regulatory re quirements. This ac quisition highlights ho w multinational c orporations like
Walmart strategically invest in emerging markets, often through partnerships or acquisitions, rather than joint
ventures. The success of such strategies hinges on aligning operational strengths, na vigating local regulations,
and meeting competitive challenges.1
Walmart’s investment in Flip kart qualifies as f oreign direct investment (FDI) be cause it in volved Walmart
acquiring a controlling 77% stake in Flip kart, an Indian c ompany, for $16 billion. This type of in vestment is
categorized as FDI sinc e it entails a dire ct investment by a f oreign company (Walmart, based in the Unite d
States) into a business operating in another country (Flipkart in India). Walmart’s majority stake gives it control
over Flipkart’s operations and strategic direction, which is characteristic of FDI.
Following the ac quisition, Flip kart operate d as a subsidiary of W almart, meaning W almart o wned the
company while Flipkart continued to function under its o wn brand and manage d the local market. The deal
1. Mishra, A. (2023, June 20). Analysis of the Walmart-Flipkart deal. AK.
4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS | 161

[Page 194]
exemplifies Walmart’s strategic move to enter India’s growing e-commerce sector and highlights the nature of
FDI as a tool to penetrate foreign markets. This arrangement c ombines the principles of FDI with subsidiary
operations, allo wing Walmart to benefit from Flip kart’s estab lished loc al presence while pro viding Flip kart
with resources and expertise to expand its market share further.2
These strategies ha ve been employed successfully in glob al business. But suc cess in international business
involves more than finding the best w ay to reach international markets. Glob al business is a c omplex, risky
endeavour. Over time, many large companies reach the point of becoming truly multinational.
Foreign Mergers
A strategic alliance with a f oreign company is not the same as a merger. These tw o concepts involve different
types of business relationships and c ommitments. A strategic allianc e is a f ormal agre ement betw een tw o
or more c ompanies to c ollaborate and lev erage each other’s resourc es, expertise, or market presenc e without
forming a new legal entity or transferring ownership. A merger involves two or more companies combining to
form a single new entity , often with share d ownership, resources, and management. In a merger, o wnership
and control are consolidated. It involves permanent restructuring. Often, one c ompany may dissolve into the
other, or both may dissolve into a newly formed entity. A strategic alliance focuses on mutual benefit without
ownership transfer, while a merger represents a deeper level of integration where the entities combine to form
a single organization.
A w ell-known e xample of a domestic c ompany merging with a f oreign c ompany is the merger betw een
Vodafone Group , b ased in the UK, and Idea Cellular, an Indian tele com pro vider. This merger c reated
Vodafone Idea Limite d, a ma jor p layer in India ’s tele communications market. The merger c ombined the
resources and market strengths of both c ompanies to enhanc e c ompetitive positioning and operational
efficiencies in a rapidly ev olving market. This type of c ross-border merger is c omplex, involving regulatory
approvals, alignment of c orporate strategies, and integration of operations ac ross different legal and cultural
environments. These c ollaborations are essential f or companies looking to e xpand their glob al footprint and
leverage each other’s strengths in their respective markets.
Both mergers and joint ventures facilitate collaboration, but they differ significantly in purpose, scope, and
legal integration.
Refer to Table 4.2 f or a c omparison of the key diff erences between strategic allianc es, joint v entures, and
mergers.
2. Agence France-Presse. (2018, May 10). Walmart buys 77% stake in Flipkart: Key reasons why the mega deal matters. Hindustan Times.
162 | 4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 195]
Table 4.2: Key differences between a strategic alliance, joint venture, and
merger
Aspect Strategic
Alliance Joint Venture Merger
Legal
Structure
No new entity
created;
companies
remain separate
Companies remain
separate
Companies
combine into a
single entity
Ownership
Independent
ownership
remains intact
Shared control over
the joint project, not
the company
Ownership is
shared in the new
entity
Control
Each company
retains control
over its
operations
Shared risks, profits,
and governance of the
project, not the
company
Control is unified
under the merged
company
Commitment
Collaboration is
often flexible and
limited
Project-based and
temporary
The commitment
is permanent and
comprehensive
Multinational Corporations
A company that operates in man y countries is c alled a multinational corporation (MNC). According to
Fortune’s Global 500 2024 rankings, Walmart is the world’s largest company by revenue for the eleventh year
in a row, with almost $648 billion in revenue in 2024. Walmart also has the most employees of any company in
the world.3
Microsoft is one of the most profitable companies in the world, along with Apple and Alphabet. As
of June 2024, Apple was the most profitable company in the world, with a net income of $100 billion. Apple
was also one of the companies with the largest corporate annual earnings of all time in 2021 and 2022.
Many MNCs ha ve made themselv es more sensitiv e to loc al market c onditions b y de centralizing their
decision-making while still maintaining a f air amount of control. Today, fewer managers are dispatched from
headquarters; MNCs depend instead on loc al talent. Not only does a de centralized organization spe ed up
and improve decision-making, but it also allo ws an MNC to proje ct the image of a loc al company. IBM, for
instance, has been quite successful in the Japanese market because local customers and suppliers perceive it as
a Japanese company. Crucial to this perc eption is the f act that the v ast majority of IBM’s T okyo employees,
including top leadership, are Japanese nationals.4
Some MNCs standardize their products glob ally, while others adapt their products to the loc al region in
3. Fortune staff. (n.d.). Fortune Global 500 ranking 2024. Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/global500/
4. Nakata, H. (2024, March 8). IBM’s tech advances are driven by leadership and collaboration. The Japan Times.
4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS | 163

[Page 196]
Red Bull parachute
which they operate. Standardization deliv ers a single unifie d product that sits c omfortably in all markets.
Standardization allows manufacturers to keep costs down using one set of manuf acturing tools and the same
packaging, creating a truly global product in the process. Production is more straightforward with only one set
of options, as oppose d to multiple versions of the same product, which c reates considerable additional costs;
in addition, w aste is also kept to a minimum. Comp ared to alternativ e versions that appeal dire ctly to loc al
users, standardized products ha ve a mass-market appeal, ideal f or travellers who c an immediately appreciate
what they’re getting wherever they acquire it.5
Here are a f ew e xamples of product
standardization in foreign markets:6
• Sporting manufacturers, such as Nike and
Adidas, retain global standardization across
global markets with strict branding,
marketing, and product themes that remain
the same throughout. However, the sports and
teams they sponsor and supply locally in each
region are culturally considered to match the
brand’s values and the product’s sales
potential.
• Red Bull, despite its Austrian roots, with its
typically European style, remains almost untouched across its international markets. It retains the same
packaging, product size, and branding throughout to stay instantly recognizable. And with its prime
marketing tactic supporting every type of extreme, high-energy sports, it’s market-appropriate across the
masses too.
MNCs often adopt the appro ach encapsulated in the motto “Think glob ally, act loc ally”. They often adjust
their operations, products, marketing, and distribution to mesh with the en vironments of the c ountries in
which they operate. Be cause they understand that a “ one-size-fits-all” mentality doesn’t make good business
sense when they’re trying to sell products in diff erent markets, they’re willing to ac commodate cultural
and e conomic diff erences. Adaptation in volves modifying the product—and potentially its pricing and
promotional strategies—to align with loc al cultural norms and legal re quirements. MNCs supp lement their
mainstream product line with products designed for local markets.
5. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
6. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
164 | 4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 197]
Here are a few examples of product adaptation in foreign markets:
• Coca-Cola, for example, sells a coffee alternative and citrus-juice drinks developed specifically for the
Japanese market.7
• McDonald’s adapts its menu for many global markets, retaining the same branding throughout yet
bolstering the phrase ‘glocal’ through regional changes so you can enjoy Chicken McArabia in the
Middle East, McSpaghetti in the Philippines, and Macarons in France.8
• Domino’s Pizza changed its topping preferences for local diners. They played to the popular diets of
seafood and fish in Asia and curries in India.9
• Dunkin’ Donuts amends its menus to cater to each of the 36 countries where it operates. You might not
instantly warm to the idea of a dry pork and seaweed donut, but they’re all the rage in China.10
• P&G Diapers completely remodelled its product when moving into alternative local markets. Their
research into local markets found that many features weren’t considered necessary in lower-income
countries, and the price seemed to be the critical factor. So, by amending packaging and product
materials, they managed to match the price point (to the same as a single egg) without damaging the
brand.11

Self-Check Exercise: Tour of McDonald’s
Multinational corporations (MNCs) are located all over the world. Review each image and try to
guess which country the McDonald’s restaurant is located in. Hover your mouse over the image to
get the answer.
7. Sakurada. (2021, February 24). Unique Coca-Cola flavours in Japan. Go With Guide
8. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
9. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
10. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
11. UX24/7. (2022, December 29). Product adaptation in foreign markets (with examples).
4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS | 165

[Page 198]
Coca-Cola, so refreshing!
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this
version of the text. You can view it online here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/
understandingbusiness/?p=148#h5p-7
Benefits of MNCs
Supporters of MNCs respond that huge c orporations deliv er better, cheaper products f or customers
everywhere; c reate jobs; and raise the standard of living in dev eloping c ountries. They also argue that
globalization increases cross-cultural understanding.
Some of the benefits of MNCs include:12
• The creation of wealth and jobs around the world.
Inward investment by multinationals creates muchneeded foreign currency for developing economies.
They also create jobs and help raise expectations of
what is possible.
• Their size and scale of operation enable them to
benefit from economies of scale, enabling lower
average costs and prices for consumers. This is
particularly important in industries with very high
fixed costs, such as car manufacture and airlines.
• Large profits can be used for research and development. For example, oil exploration is costly and risky;
this could only be undertaken by a large firm with significant profit and resources. It is similar for drug
manufacturers who need to take risks in developing new drugs.
• Adherence to standards. The success of multinationals is often because consumers like to buy goods and
services where they can rely on minimum standards. i.e., if you visit any country, you know that the
Starbucks coffee shop will give you something you are fairly familiar with. It may not be the best coffee
in the district, but it won’t be the worst. People like the security of knowing what to expect.
• Products that attain global dominance have a universal appeal. McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, and Apple have
attained their market share by meeting consumer preferences.
12. Pettinger, T. (2019, May 30). Multinational corporations: Good or bad? Economics Help.
166 | 4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 199]
• Foreign investments. Multinationals engage in foreign direct investment. This helps create capital flows
to poorer/developing economies. It also creates jobs. Although wages may be low by the standards of the
developed world, they are better jobs than the available alternatives and gradually help to raise wages in
the developing world.
• Outsourcing of production by multinationals enables lower prices; this increases disposable incomes of
households in the developed world and enables them to buy more goods and services, thereby creating
new sources of employment to offset the lost jobs from outsourcing manufacturing jobs.
Criticisms of MNCs
The global reach of MNCs is a sourc e of c riticism as w ell as praise. Critics argue that they often destro y the
livelihoods of home-c ountry workers by moving jobs to dev eloping countries where w orkers are willing to
labour under poor c onditions and f or less p ay. They also c ontend that traditional lif estyles and v alues are
being weakened, and ev en destroyed, as glob al brands f oster a glob al culture of Americ an movies, fast food,
and cheap , mass-produc ed c onsumer products. Still others claim that the demand of MNCs f or c onstant
economic growth and cheaper access to natural resources does irreversible damage to the physical environment.
All these negative consequences, critics maintain, stem from the abuses of international trade—from the policy
of placing profits above people, on a global scale.
Some of the criticisms of MNCs include:
• In the pursuit of profit, multinational companies often contribute to pollution and the use of nonrenewable resources, which is putting the environment under threat. For example, some MNCs have
been criticized for outsourcing pollution and environmental degradation to developing economies
where pollution standards are lower.13
• Outsourcing to cheaper labour-cost economies has caused a loss of jobs in the developed world. This is
an issue in the US, where many multinationals have outsourced production around the world.14
• MNCs possess substantial financial and technological resources, enabling them to dominate markets.
This often leads to monopolistic or oligopolistic practices, pushing smaller, local businesses out of
competition. For example, global retail giants have faced criticism for undermining small-scale retailers in
developing countries, disrupting local economies and livelihoods.15
• MNCs are frequently criticized for repatriating their profits to their home countries rather than
13. Pettinger, T. (2019, May 30). Multinational corporations: Good or bad? Economics Help.
14. Pettinger, T. (2019, May 30). Multinational corporations: Good or bad? Economics Help.
15. More, H. (2024, November 24). Criticism of multinational companies. The Fact Factor.
4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS | 167

[Page 200]
reinvesting them in the host nations. This practice can drain foreign exchange reserves in developing
countries and limit the local economic benefits of their operations. Host economies often see minimal
returns despite significant contributions to MNC revenues.16
• MNCs are often accused of exploiting natural resources in host countries without adequate regard for
sustainability. Industries such as mining, oil extraction, and agriculture are particularly notorious for
depleting resources and leaving host countries with long-term environmental degradation.17
Media Attributions
“Parachuting, Red bull, Chute image” by WikimediaImages, used under the Pixabay license.
“Drink, Soda, Glasses image” by stevepb, used under the Pixabay license.
16. More, H. (2024, November 24). Criticism of multinational companies. The Fact Factor.
17. More, H. (2024, November 24). Criticism of multinational companies. The Fact Factor.
168 | 4.4: TYPES OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS

[Page 201]
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND
POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS
In the classic mo vie The W izard of Oz, a magic ally misplaced Midwest farm girl takes a moment to surv ey
the bizarre landsc ape of Oz and then c omments to her little dog, “I don’t think w e’re in Kansas an ymore,
Toto”. That sentiment probably echoes the reaction of many businesspeople who find themselves in the midst
of international v entures for the first time. The diff erences between the f oreign landscape and the one with
which they’re familiar are often huge and multifaceted. Some are quite obvious, such as differences in language,
currency, and everyday habits (say, using chopsticks instead of silverware). But others are subtle, complex, and
sometimes even hidden.
The cultural environment is the set of factors that shape the way people interact with each other and their
physical and social environment. Even when two people from the same country communicate, there’s always a
possibility of misunderstanding. When pe ople from different countries get together, that possibility inc reases
substantially. Differences in c ommunication styles reflect differences in culture: the s ystem of share d beliefs,
values, customs, and beha viours that go vern the interactions of members of a society . Cultural diff erences
create challenges to successful international business dealings. Let’s look at a few of these challenges.
Some social scientists argue that CQ (Cultural Quotient) is the new IQ (Intelligenc e Quotient) and that it
is an even more important measure for determining professional success than intellect measured by traditional
intelligence quotient tests. Review this article, “ Increase Y our Cultural Intelligenc e,” f or some tips on
improving your cultural intelligence. Take this Cultural Intelligence Quiz if you wish to know whether or not
you have a high CQ.
What Is Culture?
There is no consensus among scholars of different disciplines on the definition of culture.
Social psychologist Greet Hofstede defined culture as the programming of the human mind b y which one
group of people distinguishes itself from another group . 1
But according to anthropologist Edward B. Tylor,
1. The Culture Factor Group. (2019, February). What do we mean by “culture”?
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS | 169

[Page 202]
“culture or civilization, taken in its wide ethnographic sense, is that complex whole which includes knowledge,
belief, art, morals, law, custom, and other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society”. 2
In general, socio logists define culture in tw o ways: nonmaterial and material. The nonmaterial aspe ct of
culture is define d as v alues and beliefs share d by a group of pe ople. In c ontrast, material culture c onsists of
things made by humans, ranging from buildings and clothing to arts and literature. Emile Durkheim, a French
sociologist, believes that both material and nonmaterial cultures ho ld society together. 3
Sociologists consider
culture to be the production of social order and norms, which p lay an important ro le in ho w members of a
society function, cooperate and interact with each other.
For the purpose of this text, we will define culture as a system of collective programming (values and norms)
shared by a group of people, which, when taken together, determines a society’s way of living.
Culture, as a system of values and norms, guides the social behaviour of people and serves as the foundation
of social structure. Therefore, ignorance of cultural differences can result in a negative return on investment or
weak market share, legal challenges, termination of contracts, or even lead to outright business failure.
Values
Values are shared ideas of what a group c onsiders good or bad, right or wrong. People adopt values from the
groups they belong to . For example, loving animals is a v alue that individuals get from the group to which
they belong. Some social groups will not let dogs inside the house or touch them, while others will prose cute
someone for being unkind to dogs. Furthermore, helping others, being honest, and sa ving the en vironment
are all examples of values that people derive from their groups. Values play a strong role in the development of
one’s personality and behaviour. They vary from one place to another and from one culture to another. 4
Norms
Norms are social rules and guidelines that define appropriate behaviour in a specific situation.5
Norms can be
divided into two categories:
• Mores (formal norms) are written rules which support social institutions such as public schools, the
healthcare system, the military, etc. These norms exist in all societies.
2. As cited in Logan, P. M. (2012, July). On culture: Edward B. Tylor’s Primitive Culture, 1871. Branch.
3. Cole, N. L. (2019, August 2). So, what is culture, exactly? ThoughtCo.
4. Conerly, T. R., Holmes, K., & Tamang, A. L. (2021). Introduction to sociology (3rd ed.). OpenStax.
5. Cole, N. L. (2018, August 27). What is a norm? Why does it matter? Thought Co.
170 | 4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS

[Page 203]
• Folkways (informal norms) are unwritten routine conventions of everyday life learned through
socialization; therefore, members of the same group of people show consistency in their behaviour.
Examples of informal norms are dress codes, good social manners, rituals, etc. 6
Cultural Dimensions Theory
To better understand diff erences in cultural v alues and business etiquette, organizations c an ref er to the
cultural dimensions the ory, which w as developed by a Dutch social ps ychologist, Geert Hofstede. Hofstede
divides cultural diff erences ac ross c ountries into six dimensions: po wer-distance inde x, c ollectivism vs.
individualism, uncertainty avoidance index, femininity vs. masculinity, short-term vs. long-term orientation,
and restraint vs. indulgenc e. Hofste de’s cultural dimensions are use d in multip le areas, including business
dealings and communication. 7
1. The Power Distance Index explains to what extent members of society tolerate power and inequality. A
high power index describes a culture where inequality and power differences are accepted, and there is
high respect for authority. A low power index, on the other hand, indicates that a culture believes in
power distribution and participatory decision-making. 8
2. Collectivism vs. individualism describes whether a basic social unit is “individual” or “group.” In a
society where the basic social unit is an individual, the emphasis is on individual rights and
achievements. However, a society based on collectivism places importance on the well-being of a group
and values loyalty and relationships. 9
3. Uncertainty Avoidance Index shows how uncertainties and unusual situations are dealt with by the
members of a society. A high certainty avoidance index indicates a low tolerance for risk and uncertainty.
These societies implement strict rules and regulations to reduce uncertainty and risk. A low certainty
avoidance index indicates that the tolerance for risk and uncertainty is high. Individuals in these societies
embrace changes and uncertainties and feel comfortable with unstructured situations.
4. Femininity vs. masculinity – this dimension explores how societies balance assertiveness and nurturing
roles. In masculine cultures, traits like competitiveness, ambition, and material success are highly valued,
leading to a focus on achievement and performance. Conversely, feminine cultures prioritize
6. Crossman, A. (2019, October 4). Folkways, mores, taboos, and laws: An overview of core sociological concepts. ThoughtCo.
7. Coleman, L., King, T. & Turner, B. (2025, May 22). Competent Communication: 2.2 Understanding Cultural Differences. LibreTexts.
8. Nickerson, C. (2023, October 24). Hofstede’s cultural dimensions theory & examples. Simply Psychology.
9. Pitt Law Online Blog. (2023, August 22). Cultural differences in international business. University of Pittsburgh School of Law.
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS | 171

[Page 204]
Frankfurt Bridge at night in Germany
relationships, quality of life, and caring for others, emphasizing cooperation and social welfare. This
dimension helps explain variations in social norms, workplace dynamics, and educational approaches
across different cultures.
5. Short-term vs. long-term orientation describes the extent to which a society plans for the future. A longterm-oriented society values sustainable growth, savings, and long-term achievements over short-term
success. A short-term-oriented society focuses more on the present than the future, emphasizing quick
results and short-term success.
6. Restraint vs. indulgence refers to the extent to which a society tends to fulfill its desires. Indulgence
indicates that a society enjoys life and is more likely to spend money on luxury. Restraint indicates that
the members of a society are more likely to limit themselves to absolute necessities and spend money on
more practical needs.
Issues To Address in Cultural Literacy
Differences in Communication
Verbal Communication
In many countries, English is not widely spoken. The larger population, which is usually the market you want
to tap, speaks the local language. Advertising messages and sales appeals must take this fact into account. More
than one English translation of an advertising slogan has resulted in a humorous (and perhaps serious) blunder.
Here are a f ew adv ertisements that w ere lost in
translation:
• In Belgium, the translation of the slogan of an
American auto-body company, Body by
Fisher, came out as Corpse by Fisher.
• Translated into German, the slogan, Come
Alive with Pepsi became Come Out of the
Grave with Pepsi.
• A U.S. computer company in Indonesia
translated “software” as “underwear”.
• A German chocolate product called “Zit” didn’t sell well in the U.S.
• An English-speaking car wash company in Francophone Quebec advertised itself as a “lavement d’auto”
or “car enema” instead of the correct “lavage d’auto.
• In the 1970s, General Motors’ Chevy Nova didn’t get on the road in Puerto Rico, in part because
“nova” in Spanish means “it doesn’t go”.
172 | 4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS

[Page 205]
Non-verbal Communication
What is more important in c ommunication is the non-v erbal language, which is harder to determine. F or
example, business prof essionals in the Netherlands pref er to c ommunicate only the essentials, while Italians
like to build relationships and ha ve friendly c ommunication. Some nations like dire ct ey e c ontact during
business me etings, while others find dire ct ey e c ontact intimidating. Other e xamples of non-v erbal
communication include physical distance, such as bowing.10
High- and Low-Context Cultures
Don’t expect businesspeople from these regions—or businesspeople from most of Mediterranean Europe, for
that matter—to “get down to business” as soon as a meeting has started. They’ll probably ask about your health
and that of y our family, inquire whether y ou’re enjoying your visit to their c ountry, suggest loc al foods, and
generally appear to be a voiding serious discussion at all c osts. For Canadians, such topics are c onducive to
nothing but idle chitchat, but in c ertain cultures, getting starte d this way is a matter of simp le politeness and
hospitality.
High-context and lo w-context cultures ref er to diff erent appro aches to c ommunication: High-c ontext
cultures rely on implicit messages, body language, and context. High-context cultures are often found in Asia,
the Middle East, and Latin America. Low-context cultures prioritize explicit verbal communication and clarity.
Low-context cultures are typically associated with Western countries like the United States and Germany.
Different cultures ha ve different c ommunication styles—a f act that c an take some getting use d to . F or
example, degrees of animation in expression can vary from culture to culture. Southern Europeans and Middle
Easterners are quite animated, favouring expressive body language along with hand gestures and raise d voices.
Northern Europeans are f ar more reserv ed. The English, f or example, are f amous for their understate d style
and the Germans f or their f ormality in most business settings. In addition, the distanc e at which one f eels
comfortable when talking with someone varies by culture. People from the Middle East like to converse from a
distance of a foot or less, while North Americans prefer more personal space.
While people in some cultures pref er to deliver direct, clear messages, others use language that’s subtler or
more indirect. North Americans and most Northern Europeans fall into the former category, and many Asians
into the latter. But ev en within these c ategories, there are diff erences. Though typic ally polite, Chinese and
Koreans are extremely direct in expression, while the Japanese are indirect: they use vague language and avoid
saying “no” even if they do not intend to do what you ask. They worry that turning someone down will result
in their “losing face”, i.e., an embarrassment or loss of credibility, and so they avoid doing this in public.
10. Pitt Law Online Blog. (2023, August 22). Cultural differences in international business. University of Pittsburgh School of Law.
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS | 173

[Page 206]
Business Etiquette
Before meeting with their business c ounterparts from another country, it is re commended that organizations
do some research about b asic business etiquette and be as prep ared as possib le. For example, when me eting
with business professionals from the U.S. or Canada, a firm handshake, good eye contact and keeping a proper
distance are in order. On the other hand, if the me eting is with business leaders from Russia or Brazil, f or
example, be prepared for at least three kisses on the cheeks. Being considerate of workdays and holidays is also
important when sche duling business me etings. Different countries have different work weeks. For example,
most traditionally Christian countries have Saturdays and Sundays as non-working days. Still, in Judaism, the
sabbath falls on Fridays and Saturdays, so the “weekend” days in Israel are different.
Time and Sociability
North Americans take for granted many of the cultural aspects of our business practices. Most of our meetings,
for instance, focus on business issues, and w e tend to start and end our me etings on sche dule. These habits
stem from a broader cultural preference: we don’t like to waste time. (It was an American, Benjamin Franklin,
who coined the phrase “Time is money.”) This preference, however, is by no means universal. The expectation
that meetings will start on time and adhere to pre cise agendas is c ommon in p arts of Europe (espe cially the
Germanic countries), as well as in Canada, but elsewhere—say, in Latin America and the Middle East—people
are often late to meetings.
Negotiation
As the most delicate part of business, negotiation is an art and re quires strong social skills, even when dealing
with pe ople from the same culture. Adding cultural diff erences c an make it ev en more difficult. Ho wever,
studying other cultures, especially applying Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions Theory, can be very handy when
preparing for negotiations with business parties from other countries.
Managing Culturally Diverse Teams
With the glob alization of production and servic es and c ompanies operating around the w orld, ha ving to
manage culturally diverse teams is inevitable.
Diversity is great f or bringing diff erent perspe ctives and c reative ideas to a proje ct and c an help so lve
174 | 4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS

[Page 207]
problems f aster and better; ho wever, managing div erse teams c an also be challenging. 11
Acknowledging
differences, making an eff ort to listen to and understand team members, sho wing respe ct and emp athy,
providing clear expectations right from the beginning and being transp arent in explaining those expectations
are some of the strategies managers use to address challenges associated with diverse teams. 1213
Organizations with managers and w orkers who ha ve high c ross-cultural literac y are more agile. These
organizations can quickly and easily adapt to diff erent processes, capture new opportunities, and respond to
changes across diverse markets.
In summary, learn about a c ountry’s culture and use y our knowledge to help impro ve the quality of y our
business dealings. Learn to v alue the subtle diff erences among cultures, but don’t allo w cultural stere otypes
to dictate how you interact with pe ople from any culture. Treat each person as an individual and spend time
getting to know what he or she is about.
Let’s compare Canadian and Filipino cultures using Hofstede’s six dimensions of culture.1415 If
you are interested, you can visit Country Comparison Bar Charts to find scores for various
countries.
1. Power Distance
• Canada: Canada has a relatively low Power Distance score of 39, indicating a society that
values equality and minimizes hierarchical differences. Canadians tend to expect equal
treatment and open communication between different levels of society and
organizations.
• Philippines: The Philippines has a high Power Distance score of 94, reflecting a society
that accepts and expects significant inequalities in power and wealth. Hierarchical
11. Taras, V., Baack, D ., Caprar, D ., Jiménez, A. & Froese, F. (2021, June 9). Research: How cu ltural differences can impact global teams. Harvard
Business Review.
12. Marzullo, D. (2022, June 16). How to respect cultural differences when managing a global team. Trinet
13. Brett, J.M., Behfar, K.J. & Kern, M. (2006). Managing multicultural teams. Harvard Business Review.
14. The International Business Center. (n.d.). Geert Hofstede Cultural Dimensions—Canada.
15. The International Business Center. (n.d.). Geert Hofstede Cultural Dimensions—The Philippines.
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS | 175

[Page 208]
structures are deeply ingrained, and authority is respected and seldom questioned.
2. Individualism vs. Collectivism
• Canada: With a high Individualism score of 80, Canada is an individualistic society where
personal achievements and individual rights are highly valued. People are expected to
look after themselves and their immediate family.
• Philippines: The Philippines scores low on Individualism (32), indicating a collectivist
culture. Filipinos prioritize strong family ties and group loyalty, often placing the needs of
the community above individual desires.
3. Masculinity vs. Femininity
• Canada: Canada has a moderate Masculinity score of 52, suggesting a balanced society
where both competitive and cooperative values are appreciated. Gender roles are less
rigid, and quality of life is considered important.
• Philippines: The Philippines has a Masculinity score of 64, indicating a society that
values competitiveness, achievement, and success. Traditional gender roles are more
pronounced, with a focus on male dominance in various aspects of life.
4. Uncertainty Avoidance
• Canada: Canada scores 48 on Uncertainty Avoidance, showing a moderate tolerance for
ambiguity and uncertainty. Canadians are relatively open to new ideas and changes, and
they value flexibility.
• Philippines: The Philippines has a high Uncertainty Avoidance score of 44, indicating a
preference for structured situations and clear rules. Filipinos tend to avoid uncertainty
and ambiguity, favouring stability and predictability.
5. Long-Term Orientation
• Canada: Canada has a low Long-Term Orientation score of 36, suggesting a culture that
values traditions and the present. Canadians are more focused on short-term results and
quick achievements.
• Philippines: The Philippines scores 27 on Long-Term Orientation, indicating a similar
preference for maintaining traditions and focusing on short-term goals. Filipinos value
176 | 4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS

[Page 209]
respect for tradition and fulfilling social obligations.
6. Indulgence vs. Restraint
• Canada: Canada has a high Indulgence score of 68, reflecting a society that allows
relatively free gratification of basic and natural human desires related to enjoying life and
having fun. Canadians tend to value leisure and personal happiness.
• Philippines: The Philippines scores 42 on Indulgence, indicating a more restrained
culture. Filipinos are more likely to control their desires and impulses, often due to social
norms and cultural expectations.
These dimensions highlight the key cultural differences between Canada and the Philippines,
providing insights into their societal values and behaviours.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The comparison of Canadian and Filipino cultures using
Hofstede’s six dimensions of culture was created with the assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AIbased tool designed to generate text based on user inputs. In accordance with the current
guidance from Creative Commons, the content created using Generative AI tools is shared under
a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
Media Attributions
“Frankfurt, Bridge, River image” by Bru-nO, used under the Pixabay license.
4.5: THE IMPACT OF CULTURE AND POLITICS ON GLOBAL BUSINESS | 177

[Page 210]
4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
The Economic Environment
Economic d evelopment refers to the proc ess through which a region, c ountry, or c ommunity impro ves
the well-being of its citizens b y increasing income, reducing poverty, creating jobs, and e xpanding access to
healthcare and e ducation. If y ou p lan to do business in a f oreign c ountry, y ou ne ed to kno w its lev el of
economic dev elopment. You also should be a ware of f actors influencing the v alue of its currenc y and the
impact that changes in that value will have on your profits.
Economic Development
If you don’t understand a nation’s lev el of economic development, you’ll have trouble answering some basic
questions, such as: W ill c onsumers in this c ountry be ab le to aff ord the product I w ant to sell? W ill it
be possib le to make a reasonab le profit? A c ountry’s lev el of e conomic dev elopment c an be ev aluated b y
estimating the annual inc ome earned per citizen. The W orld Bank, which lends money f or improvements in
underdeveloped nations, divides countries into four income categories.
World Bank Group Income Categories as of July 1, 2024:1
• High income— $14,005 or higher (United States, Germany, Japan, Canada)
• Upper-middle income—$4,516 to $14,005 (China, South Africa, Mexico)
• Lower-middle income—$1,146 to $4,515 (Kenya, Philippines, India)
• Low income—$1,145 or less (Afghanistan, South Sudan, Uganda)
Note that ev en though a c ountry has a lo w annual inc ome per citizen, it c an still be an attractiv e place for
doing business. India, for example, is a lower-middle-income country, yet it has a population of a billion, and a
segment of that population is well educated—an appealing feature for many business initiatives.
The classification of countries into income categories has evolved significantly over the period since the late
1980s. In 1987, 30% of reporting c ountries were classified as low-income and 25% as high-inc ome countries.
Jumping to 2023, these o verall ratios have shifted down to 12% in the lo w-income category and up to 40% in
the high-income category.
1. Metreau, E., Young, E., & Eapen, S. (2024, July 1). World Bank country classifications by income level for 2024-2025. World Bank Blog.
178 | 4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

[Page 211]
The scale and dire ction of these shifts, ho wever, vary a great deal betw een world regions. Here are some
regional highlights:2
• 100% of South Asian countries were classified as low-income countries in 1987, whereas this share has
fallen to just 13% in 2023.
• In the Middle East and North Africa, there is a higher share of low-income countries in 2023 (10%) than
in 1987, when no countries were classified in this category.
• In Latin America and the Caribbean, the share of high-income countries has climbed from 9% in 1987
to 44% in 2023.
• Europe and Central Asia have a slightly lower share of high-income countries in 2023 (69%) than they
did in 1987 (71%).
The long-term go al of man y c ountries is to mo ve up the e conomic dev elopment ladder. Some f actors
conducive to e conomic gro wth include a reliab le b anking s ystem, a strong stock market, and go vernment
policies to enc ourage in vestment and c ompetition while disc ouraging c orruption. It’s also important that
a c ountry ha ve a strong infrastructure—its s ystems of c ommunications (telep hone, Internet, television,
newspapers), transportation (ro ads, railways, airports), energy (gas and ele ctricity, power plants), and social
facilities (schools, hospitals). These b asic systems will help c ountries attract f oreign investors, which c an be
crucial to economic development.
Currency Valuations and Exchange Rates
If every nation used the same currenc y, international trade and tra vel would be a lot easier. Of c ourse, this is
not the case. The United Nations currently recognizes 180 currencies that are used in 195 countries across the
world.3
Some currencies you’ve heard of, such as the British pound; others are likely unkno wn to you, such as
the manat, the official currency of Azerbaijan. If you were in Azerbaijan, you would exchange your Canadian
dollars for Azerbaijan manats. The da y’s foreign exchange rate will tell y ou how much one currenc y is worth
relative to another currency and so determine how many manats you will receive. If you have travelled abroad,
you already have personal experience with the impact of exchange rate movements.
2. Metreau, E., Young, E., & Eapen, S. (2024, July 1). World Bank country classifications by income level for 2024-2025. World Bank Blog.
3. Sawe, B. (2018, June 28). How many currencies exist in the world? World Atlas.
4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | 179

[Page 212]
The Legal and Regulatory Environment
One of the more difficult aspe cts of doing business glob ally is dealing with v ast differences in legal and
regulatory en vironments. Canada, f or e xample, has an estab lished set of la ws and regulations that pro vide
direction to businesses operating within its borders. But be cause there is no glob al legal s ystem, key areas of
business law—for example, contract provisions and copyright protection—can be treated in different ways in
different countries. Companies doing international business often face many inconsistent laws and regulations.
To navigate this sea of c onfusion, Canadian business pe ople must know and follow both Canadian la ws and
regulations and those of the nations in which they operate.
Business history is fille d with stories about North Americ an c ompanies that ha ve stumb led in trying to
comply with f oreign la ws and regulations. La ws change o ver time. F or e xample, the go vernment in the
Netherlands made w orking from home a legal right. This means c ompanies c an e xpect re quests from
employees to w ork remotely. Therefore, companies should dev elop a w ork-from-home policy outlining the
factors they will consider when an employee makes a request.4
One approach to dealing with loc al laws and regulations is to hire la wyers from the host c ountry who can
provide advice on legal issues. Another is working with local business people who have experience in complying
with regulations and overcoming bureaucratic obstacles.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
One Canadian law that creates unique challenges for Canadian firms operating overseas is the Corruption of
Foreign Public Officials Act (CFPO A), which pro hibits the distribution of bribes and other f avours in the
conduct of business. Despite the practic e being illegal in Canada, such tactics as kickb acks and bribes are
business-as-usual in many nations. According to some experts, Canadian business people are at a c ompetitive
disadvantage if they’re pro hibited from giving bribes or underc over payments to f oreign officials or business
people who expect them. In the ory, because the Corruption of F oreign Public Officials Act warns foreigners
that Canadians can’t give bribes, they’ll eventually stop expecting them.
Where are business pe ople most likely and least likely to enc ounter bribe re quests and relate d f orms of
corruption? T ransparency International reports on c orruption and pub lishes an annual Corruption
Perceptions Index that rates the world’s countries. Transparency International annually rates nations according
to “perceived corruption” and defines corruption as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” A score of
100 would be perfect (corruption-free), and anything below 30 establishes that corruption is rampant. In 2023,
4. Owen-Jones, J. (2022, July 21). The Netherlands is making work from home a legal right: What does this mean for Dutch companies? Deel.
180 | 4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

[Page 213]
Containers at a port.
Canada scored 76/100 on the Corruption Perceptions Index, ranking 12/180 countries. Top-scoring countries
also tend to have well-functioning justice systems, stronger rule of law and political stability.5
Ranked as the least corrupt country was Denmark, ranking 1/180 and scoring 90/100, followed by Finland,
New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, and Sweden. The most corrupt countries include Somalia, ranked 180/180,
followed by Venezuela, Syria, South Sudan, Yemen, and North Korea.6
Transparency International reports on c orruption and publishes an annual Corruption P erceptions Index
that rates the w orld’s countries. A sc ore of 100 w ould be perf ect (corruption-free), and an ything below 30
establishes that corruption is rampant.
Trade Controls
The debate about the e xtent to which c ountries
should c ontrol the flo w of f oreign goods and
investments ac ross their borders is as o ld as
international trade itself. Trade c ontrols are
policies that restrict fre e trade, and go vernments
continue to control trade. To better understand how
and why, let’s e xamine a hypothetical case. Suppose
you’re in charge of a small c ountry in which pe ople
do tw o things—gro w f ood and make clothes.
Because the quality of both products is high and the
prices are reasonab le, your consumers are happ y to
buy locally made f ood and clothes. But one da y, a f armer from a nearb y country crosses your border with
several wagonloads of wheat to sell. On the same da y, a foreign clothes maker arrives with a large shipment of
clothes. These two entrepreneurs want to sell food and clothes in your country at prices below those that local
consumers no w p ay f or domestic ally made f ood and clothes. At first, this se ems like a good deal f or y our
consumers: they won’t have to pay as much for food and clothes. But then you remember all the people in your
country who gro w f ood and make clothes. If no one buys their goods (be cause the importe d goods are
cheaper), what will happen to their livelihoods? And if many people become unemployed, what will happen to
your national economy? That’s when you decide to protect your farmers and clothes makers by setting up trade
rules. Maybe you’ll increase the prices of imported goods by adding a tax to them; you might even make the tax
so high that they’re more e xpensive than y our homemade goods. Or perhaps y ou’ll help y our farmers grow
5. Transparency International. (n.d.). Our work in Canada.
6. Transparency International. (n.d.). Corruption perceptions index.
4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | 181

[Page 214]
food more cheaply by giving them financial help to defray their costs. The government payments that you give
to the farmers to help offset some of their production c osts are called subsidies. These subsidies will allo w the
farmers to lower the price of their goods to a point belo w that of importe d competitors’ goods. What’s ev en
better is that the lower costs will allow the farmers to export their own goods at attractive, competitive prices.
Canada has a long history of subsidizing f armers. Subsidy programs guarante e f armers (including large
corporate farms) a c ertain price for their c rops, regardless of the market pric e. This guarante e ensures stab le
income in the f arming community, but it c an have a negativ e impact on the w orld economy. How? Critics
argue that in allo wing Canadian f armers to e xport c rops at artificially lo w pric es, Canadian agricultural
subsidies permit them to c ompete unfairly with f armers in dev eloping countries. A rev erse situation oc curs
in the steel industry, in which a number of c ountries—China, Japan, Russia, Germany, and Brazil—subsidize
domestic producers. U.S. trade unions charge that trade subsidy practic es give an unfair advantage to foreign
producers and hurt American industries, which can’t compete on price with subsidized imports.
The top exports of Canada in 2022 w ere crude petroleum ($123B), cars ($29.4B), petroleum gas ($24.3B),
refined petro leum ($17.2B), and go ld ($14.7B), e xporting mostly to the Unite d States ($438B), China
($25.4B), Jap an ($14.3B), Unite d Kingdom ($12.9B), and M exico ($7.39B). The top imports of Canada
are cars ($31.9B), refined petroleum ($19.8B), motor v ehicles; parts and ac cessories ($17.4B), deliv ery trucks
($17.3B), and c rude petro leum ($16.8B), importing mostly from Unite d States ($308B), China ($62.1B),
Mexico ($22.2B), German y ($14.1B), and Jap an ($9.87B).7
So, if Canada importe d $308B from the Unite d
States and exported $438B to the United States, Canada achieved a positive trade balance of $130B.
Whether they push up the pric e of imports or push do wn the pric e of loc al goods, such initiativ es will
help locally produced goods compete more favourably with foreign goods. Both strategies are f orms of trade
controls—policies that restrict fre e trade. Be cause they prote ct domestic industries b y re ducing f oreign
competition, the use of such c ontrols is often c alled protectionism. Though there’s c onsiderable debate over
the pros and cons of this practice, all countries engage in it to some extent. Before debating the issue, however,
let’s learn about the more common types of trade restrictions: tariffs, quotas, and embargos.
Tariffs
Tariffs are taxes on imports that increase the price of foreign-made goods, making them less competitive. They
also serv e as a sourc e of rev enue f or go vernments. For instanc e, in M arch 2025, President Donald T rump
announced that the U.S. would maintain a 25% tariff on imported steel products to bolster the American steel
industry and protect U.S. steel manufacturers.
7. OEC. (2022). Canada.
182 | 4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

[Page 215]
Quotas
A quota imposes limits on the quantity of a good that c an be importe d over a period of time. Quotas are
used to prote ct specific industries, usually new industries or those f acing strong c ompetitive pressure from
foreign firms. Canadian import quotas take two forms. An absolute quota fixes an upper limit on the amount
of a good that c an be imported during the giv en period. A tariff-rate quota permits the import of a spe cified
quantity and then adds a high import tax once the limit is reached.
Sometimes quotas prote ct one group at the e xpense of another. F or e xample, let us assume that a
hypothetical c ountry restricts the number of mangoes importe d. Let us also assume that the demand f or
mangoes in the c ountry is 27,000 pounds and the current international market pric e f or one pound of
mangoes is $1.35. Upon introducing an import quota, the c ountry impose d restrictions and allo wed the
import of only 18,000 pounds of mangoes. When this happens, it hikes the domestic price to $1.89 per pound
of mangoes. At this pric e, the domestic f armers of the c ountry can afford to inc rease their production from
4,000 to 9,000 pounds. At the same time, at the pric e of $1.89 per pound, the country’s demand for mangoes
declines to 25,000 pounds. In this example, the restriction helps domestic mango farmers increase production
and decrease demand through price regulation.8
Another e xample is the wheat e xport quota imp lemented b y India, which has prompte d Nep al’s flour
industry to adapt and inno vate. It w as introduced in response to c oncerns about re duced wheat production
due to heatw aves in India, but it has spurre d resilience in Nep ali flour mills. Nep al, which primarily sourc es
wheat from India, initially re ceived a p artial quota alloc ation, leading to c oncerns about potential pric e
increases. In response to this situation, c alls ha ve be en made f or the Nep ali go vernment to engage in
constructive dialogue with India to se cure 200,000 tonnes of wheat, which c ould help mitigate potential
shortages. While the initial quota alloc ation did offer some relief by reducing flour prices, industry leaders are
now advocating for a comprehensive, long-term solution, recognizing that domestic production alone may not
suffice to meet the demand.9
Embargos
An extreme form of quota is the embargo, which, for economic or political reasons, bans the import or export
of certain goods to or from a specific country.
8. WallStreetMojo. (2023, September 28). Quota.
9. WallStreetMojo. (2023, September 28). Quota.
4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | 183

[Page 216]
Dumping
A common political rationale for establishing tariffs and quotas is the ne ed to combat dumping: the practice
of selling exported goods below the price that producers would normally charge in their home markets (and
often below the cost of producing the goods). Usually, nations resort to this practice to gain entry and market
share in foreign markets, but it c an also be use d to sell off surplus or obsolete goods. Dumping c reates unfair
competition for domestic industries, and go vernments are justifiab ly c oncerned when they suspe ct foreign
countries of dumping products on their markets. They often retaliate b y imposing punitive tariffs that drive
up the price of the imported goods.
The Pros and Cons of Trade Controls
Opinions vary on government involvement in international trade. Proponents of c ontrols contend that there
are a number of legitimate reasons wh y c ountries engage in prote ctionism. Sometimes they restrict trade
to protect specific industries and their w orkers from f oreign competition—agriculture, for example, or ste el
making. At other times, they restrict imports to giv e new or struggling industries a chanc e to get estab lished.
Finally, some c ountries use prote ctionism to shield industries that are vital to their national def ence, such as
shipbuilding and military hardware.
Despite valid arguments made by supporters of trade controls, most experts believe that such restrictions as
tariffs and quotas, as well as practices that don’t promote lev el playing fields, such as subsidies and dumping,
are detrimental to the w orld e conomy. W ithout impe diments to trade, c ountries c an c ompete fre ely. E ach
nation can focus on what it does best and bring its goods to a fair and open world market. When this happens,
the world will prosper, or so the argument goes. International trade is c ertainly heading in the dire ction of
unrestricted markets.
Media Attributions
“Container port, Port, Coast image” by cocoparisienne, used under the Pixabay license.
184 | 4.6: THE GLOBAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT

[Page 217]
4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE
BARRIERS
Many organizations w ork to remo ve b arriers to trade, and an inc reasing number of c ountries are c oming
together to foster trade and shared economic benefits. Lowering trade barriers helps businesses source materials
and products from more aff ordable international supp liers, re ducing production c osts and boosting
competitiveness. F or e xample, when China lo wered its trade b arriers, it made cheaper goods a vailable to
businesses worldwide, resulting in lo wer prices for consumers globally. Additionally, the re duction of tariffs
and quotas allows businesses to tap into larger markets, c reating more sales opportunities and higher profits.
A case in point is the European Union, where the remo val of trade barriers among member countries enables
businesses to sell products across all EU nations without incurring extra costs.
Let’s review some of the important initiatives in reducing international trade barriers.
Trade Agreements and Organizations
Free trade is enc ouraged by a number of agre ements and organizations set up to monitor trade po licies. The
two most important are the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the World Trade Organization.
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
After the Great Depression and W orld War II, most c ountries f ocused on prote cting home industries, so
international trade w as hindere d b y rigid trade restrictions. T o re ctify this situation, tw enty-three nations
joined together in 1947 and signe d the General Agre ement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which encouraged
free trade by regulating and reducing tariffs and by providing a forum for resolving trade disputes. The highly
successful initiative achieved substantial re ductions in tariffs and quotas, and in 1995, its members f ounded
the World Trade Organization to continue the work of GATT in overseeing global trade.
World Trade Organization
Based in Geneva, Switzerland, with nearly 150 members, the World Trade Organization (WTO) encourages
global c ommerce and lo wer trade b arriers, enf orces international rules of trade, and pro vides a f orum f or
resolving disputes. It is empo wered, for instance, to determine whether a member nation’s trade po licies have
violated the organization’s rules, and it can direct “guilty” countries to remove disputed barriers (though it has
4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS | 185

[Page 218]
no legal power to force any country to do anything it doesn’t want to do). If the guilty party refuses to comply,
the WTO may authorize the plaintiff nation to erect trade barriers of its own, generally in the form of tariffs.
Affected members aren’t alw ays happ y with WT O actions. In 2002, f or e xample, President Ge orge W.
Bush’s administration impose d a thre e-year tariff on importe d ste el. In ruling against this tariff, the WT O
allowed the aggrieved nations to impose counter-tariffs on some politically sensitive American products, such
as Florida oranges, Texas grapefruits, computers, and Wisconsin cheese. Reluctantly, the administration lifted
its tariff on steel.1
Financial Support for Emerging Economies: The IMF and
the World Bank
A key to helping dev eloping c ountries be come activ e p articipants in the glob al marketp lace is pro viding
financial assistance. Offering monetary assistance to some of the poorest nations in the world is the shared goal
of two organizations: the International M onetary Fund and the W orld Bank. These organizations, to which
most countries belong, were established in 1944 to accomplish different but complementary purposes.
The International Monetary Fund
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is governed by and accountable to its 191 member c ountries. It
has three critical missions: furthering international monetary cooperation, encouraging the expansion of trade
and economic growth, and discouraging policies that would harm prosperity. It loans money to countries with
troubled economies, such as Mexico in the 1980s and mid-1990s and Russia and Argentina in the late 1990s.
There are, however, strings attached to IMF lo ans: in exchange for relief in times of financial c risis, borrower
countries must institute sometimes painful financial and economic reforms. In the 1980s, for example, Mexico
received financial relief from the IMF on the c ondition that it priv atize and deregulate c ertain industries
and liberalize trade po licies. The go vernment was also re quired to cut b ack expenditures for such servic es as
education, health care, and workers’ benefits.2
The World Bank
The World Bank is an important sourc e of e conomic assistance for poor and dev eloping countries. With
backing from w ealthy donor c ountries (such as Canada, the Unite d States, Jap an, Germany, and the Unite d
1. Becker, E. (2003, November 11). U.S. tariffs on steel are illegal, the World Trade Organization says. New York Times.
2. Sanders, B. (1998, July/August). The International Monetary Fund is hurting you. Third World Traveller.
186 | 4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS

[Page 219]
Kingdom), the World Bank has committed $128.3 billion in loans, grants, and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.3
Loans are made to help c ountries improve the lives of the poor through c ommunitysupport programs designed to provide health, nutrition, education, infrastructure, and other social services.
Trading Blocs: CUSMA and the European Union
So f ar, our discussion has suggeste d that glob al trade w ould be strengthene d if there w ere no restrictions
on it—if c ountries didn’t put up b arriers to trade or perf orm spe cial favours for domestic industries. The
complete absence of barriers is an ideal situation that we haven’t yet attained. In the meantime, economists and
policymakers tend to focus on a more practical question: Can we achieve the goal of free trade on the regional
level? To an e xtent, the answ er is y es. In c ertain parts of the w orld, groups of c ountries have joined together
to allow goods and servic es to flo w without restrictions ac ross their mutual borders. Such groups are c alled
trading blocs. Let’s examine two of the most powerful trading blocs—CUSMA and the European Union.
CUSMA
CUSMA is a fre e trade agre ement betw een Canada, the Unite d States, and M exico, which rep laced the
NAFTA free trade agre ement. In April 2020, Canada and M exico notified the U.S. that they w ere ready to
implement the agreement. The CUSMA took effect on July 1, 2020, replacing NAFTA.4
Each country benefits
from the comparative advantages of its partners: each nation is fre e to produce what it does best and to trade
its goods and services without restrictions.
The European Union
The f orty-plus c ountries of Europe ha ve long sho wn an interest in integrating their e conomies. The first
organized eff ort to integrate a segment of Europe’s e conomic entities began in the late 1950s, when six
countries joined together to f orm the European E conomic Community (EEC). Ov er the ne xt four decades,
membership grew, and in the late 1990s, the EEC became the European Union. Today, the European Union
(EU) is a unique economic and political union between 27 countries that have eliminated trade barriers among
themselves (Refer to the map in Figure 7.4).
The EU is more than a trading organization: it also enhanc es political and social cooperation and binds its
members into a single entity with the authority to re quire them to follow common rules and regulations. It is
3. IFC. (n.d.). World Bank Group 2023 summary results.
4. Lobosco, K. (2020, July 1). NAFTA is officially gone. Here’s what has and hasn’t changed. CNN.
4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS | 187

[Page 220]
much like a federation of states with a weak central government, with the effect not only of eliminating internal
barriers but also of enf orcing common tariffs on trade from outside the EU. In addition, the EU also allo ws
people to come and go freely: if you possess an EU passport, you can work in any EU nation.
The Euro
A key step toward unification occurred in 1999, when most (but not all) EU members agreed to abandon their
own currencies and adopt a joint currency. The actual conversion occurred in 2002, when a common currency
188 | 4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS

[Page 221]
called the euro replaced the separate currencies of participating EU countries. The common currency facilitates
trade and finance because exchange-rate differences no longer complicate transactions.5
The formation of the European Union (EU) p aved the w ay for a unifie d, multi-country financial s ystem
under a single currency: the euro. Most EU member nations agreed to adopt the euro, but a few have decided
to stick with their legac y currencies. There are 27 member c ountries in the European Union, but six of them
are not in the Eurozone and theref ore don’t use the euro . Denmark is a member c ountry but has negotiate d
an opt-out with the Union, and it has kept its o wn currency. The six c ountries that are not in the Eurozone
choose to use their o wn currencies as a w ay to maintain financial independenc e on c ertain key issues. These
issues include setting monetary po licy, dealing with issues spe cific to each c ountry, handling national debt,
modulating inflation, and choosing to dev alue the currency in certain circumstances. The Euro enables trade
to operate far quicker by removing the need and risk of currenc y exchanges when operating ac ross Eurozone
countries. Currency exchanges cost money to complete and are a risk to businesses as fluctuations in rates lead
to uncertainty about the cost of the exchange. Therefore, by removing this barrier, trade has flowed more easily
between countries.6
Only time will tell whether the trend to ward regional trade agre ements is good f or the w orld e conomy.
Clearly, they’re beneficial to their respe ctive participants; for one thing, they get pref erential treatment from
other members. But c ertain questions still ne ed to be answ ered more fully . Are regional agre ements, f or
example, moving the w orld closer to fre e trade on a glob al scale, toward a marketp lace in which goods and
services can be traded anywhere without barriers?
CPTPP and CETA Agreements
Canada is engaged in other more recently negotiated trade agreements, including the following:
• The Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) took effect in
January 2019 and is a comprehensive and progressive agreement that is made up of 11 member
countries. TPP will increase Canada’s foothold in the Asia Pacific and create opportunities to open new
markets, such as Canadian beef and pork producers gaining access to the Japanese market. Opponents of
the TPP agreement highlight the impact on the dairy industry, the auto sector, and other groups.7
• The Canadian-European Union Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA), through
which 98% of Canadian goods are now duty-free, and eventually, 99% of tariffs will be eliminated.8
5. Directorate-General for Communication. (n.d.). Benefits: What are the benefits of the euro? European Union.
6. Seth, S. (2023, December 4). Why these European countries don’t use the Euro. Investopedia.
7. Manning, R. (2020, July 7). Global and regional trade systems. Atlantic Council.
4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS | 189

[Page 222]
• Canada started negotiations with Mercosur (a regional trade bloc in South America made up of the
following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay and Venezuela) in 2018, but had to pause
when other priorities took over. As of 2023, Canada resumed negotiations for a free trade agreement
(FTA) with Mercosur, a trading bloc and customs union consisting of Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and
Uruguay.9
Other Free Trade Agreements and Blocs
Nations ha ve groupe d together to f orm regional trade associations f or their o wn benefits, including the
following:
• ASEAN Free Trade Area;
• The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC);
• The Economic Community of Central African States;
• The Gulf Cooperation Council; and
• BRICS – Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Iva Bravic Millereau
Iva Bravic Millereau
As the CEO of Re. VITYL Wellness, a small y et global company, Iva Bravic Millereau’s c ompany, specializes
in delivering bespoke and brande d products to luxury hotels and dep artment stores around the w orld. Iva
8. Government of Canada. (2021). Canada-UK trade continuity agreement explained.
9. MercoPress. (2023, April 10). Mercosur, Canada to resume trade deal talks.
190 | 4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS

[Page 223]
has worked across three continents and nine c ountries. This diverse experience has taught her that “ cultural
intelligence” is the cornerstone of successful global leadership.
Understanding and appre ciating cultural differences is not just important; it is essential. Leaders must be
attuned to the norms, values, and communication styles of various cultures to adapt their leadership approach
effectively. Each region and culture has its o wn unique nuanc es, norms, and etiquette that must be kept in
mind and understood to successfully negotiate and conduct business internationally.
“Doing business globally is one of the most exhilarating adventures any business professional can embark
upon. My first role as a buyer for the Hudson Bay Company (HBC) took me on a buying trip to China in
2004, and it was during my early twenties that I truly grasped the incredible interconnectedness of our world.
Every region has honed unique skills and strengths: France excels in luxury goods, Switzerland is renowned
for its chocolates and watches, Canada leads in tech and forestry industries, and China is at the forefront of
technology and electric vehicles.
Successful companies understand the power of leveraging this global expertise to drive innovation and
growth. When global businesses support each other, we not only propel our individual successes but also
contribute to a more sustainable and prosperous world for everyone. The future is bright, and the
opportunities are boundless for those who embrace the global marketplace with an open mind and a
collaborative spirit!”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Iv a Bra vic Millereau. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
Media Attributions
“Figure 4.3: Map of European Countries in the European Union” is is reused from Members of the European
Union,
Europe and the European Union” from Wikimedia Commons.
Image Descriptions
Figure 4.3
A map of Europe, with c ountries within the European Union highlighte d in burnt orange. These c ountries
include Austria, Italy , Belgium, Latvia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Cro atia, Luxembourg, Cyprus, M alta, Czechia,
Netherlands, Denmark, P oland, Estonia, P ortugal, Finland, Romania, Franc e, Slovakia, Germany, Slovenia,
Greece, Spain, Hungary, Sweden, and Ireland.
[back to figure]
4.7: REDUCING INTERNATIONAL TRADE BARRIERS | 191

[Page 224]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
• Globalization is the process of increasing economic and social integration between
countries, and the increased flow of goods, services, and people across borders.
• A country has an absolute advantage if (1) it’s the only source of a particular product, or (2)
it can make more of a product using fewer resources than other countries.
• A comparative advantage exists when a country can produce a product at a lower
opportunity cost compared to another nation.
• An opportunity cost indicates what must be given up to obtain something that is desired.
• A country’s balance of trade is calculated by subtracting the value of its imports from the
value of its exports. If a country sells more products than it buys, it has a favourable balance,
called a trade surplus. If it buys more than it sells, it has an unfavourable balance, or a trade
deficit.
• A nation’s deficit is when a government spends more money than it receives in revenue
over a period of time.
• Balance of payments is the difference, over a period of time, between the total flow of
money coming into a country and the total flow of money going out.
• Importing is buying products overseas and reselling them in one’s own country.
• Exporting is selling products to another country.
• An international licensing agreement allows a foreign company (the licensee) to sell the
products of a producer (the licensor) or to use its intellectual property (such as patents,
trademarks, copyrights) in exchange for what is known as royalty fees.
• Under an international franchise agreement, a company (the franchiser) grants a foreign
company (the franchisee) the right to use its brand name and to sell its products or services.
The franchisee is responsible for all operations but agrees to operate according to a business
model established by the franchiser. The franchisee pays royalties to the franchiser. In turn,
the franchiser usually provides advertising, training, and new-product assistance.
192 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 225]
• Because of high domestic labour costs, many U.S. companies manufacture their products in
countries where labour costs are lower. This arrangement is called international contract
manufacturing, a form of outsourcing.
• A strategic alliance is an agreement between two companies (or a company and a nation)
to pool resources in order to achieve business goals that benefit both partners. A strategic
alliance and a joint venture are both collaborative business arrangements between
companies, but they differ in structure, commitment, and goals.
• Foreign direct investment (FDI) refers to the formal establishment of business operations
on foreign soil—the building of factories, sales offices, and distribution networks to serve
local markets in a nation other than the company’s home country
• A company that operates in many countries is called a multinational corporation (MNC).
• Economic development refers to the process through which a region, country, or
community improves the well-being of its citizens by increasing income, reducing poverty,
creating jobs, and expanding access to healthcare and education.
• Culture is a system of collective programming (values and norms) shared by a group of
people, which, when taken together, determines a society’s way of living.
• Values are shared ideas of what a group considers good or bad, right or wrong. Individuals
get values from groups in which they are members.
• Norms are social rules and guidelines that define appropriate behaviour in a specific
situation.
• The cultural environment is the set of factors that shape the way people interact with
each other and their physical and social environment.
• Geert Hofstede divides cultural differences across countries into six dimensions: powerdistance index, collectivism vs. individualism, uncertainty avoidance index, femininity vs.
masculinity, short-term vs. long-term orientation, and restraint vs. indulgence. Hofstede’s
cultural dimensions are used in multiple areas, including business dealings and
communication.
• High-context and low-context cultures refer to different approaches to communication.
High-context cultures rely on implicit messages, body language, and context. High-context
cultures are often found in Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. Low-context cultures
prioritize explicit verbal communication and clarity. Low-context cultures are typically
associated with Western countries like the United States and Germany.
• Transparency International annually rates nations according to “perceived corruption” and
defines corruption as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” A score of 100 would
be perfect (corruption-free), and anything below 30 establishes that corruption is rampant.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 193

[Page 226]
• Trade controls are policies that restrict free trade, and governments continue to control
trade.
• Tariffs are taxes on imports.
• A quota imposes limits on the quantity of a good that can be imported over a period of time.
• An extreme form of quota is the embargo, which, for economic or political reasons, bans the
import or export of certain goods to or from a specific country.
• Dumping is the practice of selling exported goods below the price that producers would
normally charge in their home markets (and often below the cost of producing the goods).
• The World Trade Organization (WTO) encourages global commerce and lower trade
barriers, enforces international rules of trade, and provides a forum for resolving disputes.
• CUSMA is a free trade agreement between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, which
replaced the NAFTA free trade agreement.
• Today, the European Union (EU) is a unique economic and political union between 27
countries that have eliminated trade barriers among themselves
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 4: Global Business [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Japan’s Value of Money. Use the Internet to research how expensive things are to buy in
Japan. Why has Japan become one of the cheapest countries in the developed world
(compared to the 1980s when Japan was very expensive)? Compare costs in Japan to costs in
Canada. Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
2. Cultural Intelligence. What’s your cultural intelligence? Take this Cultural Intelligence Quiz
194 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 227]
to find out. When doing global business, interacting with various cultures, it is a good idea to
learn a bit about the cultures and people you will be interacting with.
3. Foreign Market. Imagine you own a furniture store in Canada that specializes in
handcrafted dining room tables and chairs. You would like to sell your product to countries in
Western Europe. What would be a good mode of entering the foreign market for your
company? Use the Internet to research the possibilities. Discuss with the class and/or
professor.
4. Developing Nations. Countries like Canada and the U.S. have high standards of living and
are referred to as industrialized nations. Countries with a lower standard of living are called
developing nations (or sometimes underdeveloped or less developed countries). What
factors prevent developing nations from becoming industrialized nations? Discuss with the
class and/or professor.
5. Intellectual Property. With the growth of online businesses comes new legal challenges
where intellectual property is concerned. Patents, brand names, copyrights, and trademarks
are difficult to monitor because of the boundaryless nature of the Internet. What steps could
a business take to protect its trademarks and brands in this environment? List at least five
suggestions and compare your list with those of your classmates.
6. Global 500. Use the most recent edition of the Fortune Global 500 list. What is the Global
500 ranking based on? List the home countries of the world’s 10 largest corporations.
Discuss with the class and/or your professor.
7. International Company. Visit the website of a major global company such as Coca-Cola (or
another as assigned by your professor) and enter some of its international sites. Choose
countries from various parts of the world. What are some of the differences and similarities
you can identify on the websites? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
8. The World Bank. The World Bank uses per-capita income to make distinctions among
countries. Research and identify at least three countries in the following categories for last
year: high-income countries, upper-middle-income countries, lower-middle-income
countries, and lower-income countries. In addition, identify the source of the data that you
used to draw these conclusions. Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
9. Foreign Investment. What attributes of your province or region (cultural, geographical,
economic, etc.) would be of interest to a foreign firm thinking about locating there? Visit
provincial government sites and locate resources that are available for businesses to help
them invest in your province (region). Identify a company that has recently invested in your
area. What reasons did the company provide for its decision? Share your findings with the
class and/or professor.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 195

[Page 228]
10. CUSMA. What does the CUSMA agreement entail? Which countries are involved? What
other trade agreements exist that involve Canada? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
11. Strategic Alliance. Use the Internet to search for a recent joint venture or strategic alliance
between two or more companies. Summarize why the alliance came about and what the
final results were. Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
12. Failed Adaptations. Use the Internet to search for an example of a company that
attempted to adapt its product to a foreign market only to fail. Summarize what happened
and share your findings with the class and/or professor.
13. Corruption. Visit Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index for last year and
determine which country is most corrupt among Canada, the U.S., and Australia (or other
countries as assigned by your professor). Review how these countries were ranked and
determine the similarities and differences between them. Summarize your findings and share
them with the class and/or professor.
14. Trading Blocs. Use the Internet to research the differences between the CUSMA and the
European Union agreements. Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
15. Canada’s Free Trade. Use the Internet to research which free trade agreements Canada is a
member of. Choose one not explained in the chapter, explain which countries are members,
and provide a few details about the agreement itself. Share your findings with the class and/
or professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Global Business Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
196 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 229]
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=160#h5p-8
Concept Review: International Business (Dialogue Cards)
Review this chapter’s concepts by going through their definitions.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=160#h5p-9
Additional Resources
• Trading Economics: Canada’s Exports by Category
• Trading Economics: Canada’s Exports: Summary
• International Trade Statistics
• Statistics Canada: Canadian International Merchandise Trade: Annual Review 2023
CHAPTER REVIEW | 197

[Page 230]
• Trading Economics: Canada, World Bank Development Indicators
• International Monetary Fund
• WTO Explained. YouTube Video.
• USMCA Agreement. YouTube Video.
• Your 6-Step Guide to Starting and Import Export Business. YouTube Video.
• What is Globalization? Understand Our Interconnected World. YouTube Video.
• HSBC Funny Culture Ads (Subway, Bart, Golf), YouTube Video.
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
198 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 231]
CHAPTER 5: ETHICS AND SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY
CHAPTER 5: ETHICS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY | 199

[Page 232]
200 | CHAPTER 5: ETHICS AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

[Page 233]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter c overs ho w businesses c an act responsib ly and ethic ally. Y ou’ll learn about CSR, the UN
Sustainable Development Goals, Caroll’s CSR Pyramid, and legal duties. W e’ll also discuss business ethics,
preventing unethical actions, and maintaining honesty and integrity in your professional life.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Define Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and how it aligns with the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
2. Discuss how corporate social responsibility (CSR) impacts various stakeholders such as
owners, investors, managers, employees, customers, and communities.
3. Explain the four parts of Caroll’s Corporate Social Responsibility Pyramid.
4. Differentiate between CSR and ESG frameworks in assessing corporate sustainability.
5. Describe business ethics and explain what it means to act ethically in business.
6. Illustrate how an individual can avoid an ethical lapse, and why one should not rationalize
when making decisions.
7. Identify the things you can do to maintain your honesty and integrity in a business
environment.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 201

[Page 234]
5.1: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
(CSR) AND THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
Corporate social responsibility is a business model by which companies make a concerted effort to operate
in ways that enhanc e rather than degrade society and the en vironment. CSR c an help impro ve society and
promote a positive brand image for companies. It refers to the approach that an organization takes in balancing
its responsibilities to ward different stakeholders when making legal, e conomic, ethical, and social de cisions.
CSR includes f our categories: environmental impacts, ethical responsibility, philanthropic endeavours, and
financial responsibilities.1
What motiv ates companies to be “socially responsib le”? We hope it’s be cause they w ant to do the right
thing, and for many companies, “doing the right thing” is a key motivator. The fact is, it’s often hard to figure
out what the “right thing” is: what’s “right” for one group of stakeholders isn’t necessarily “right” for another.
One thing, however, is certain: companies today are held to higher standards than ever before. Consumers and
other groups c onsider not only the quality and pric e of a c ompany’s products but also its character. If too
many groups see a company as a poor corporate citizen, it will have a harder time attracting qualified employees,
finding investors, and selling its products. Good corporate citizens, by contrast, are more successful in all these
areas.
Sustainable Development Goals
The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals that aim to achieve peace
and prosperity f or the pe ople and the p lanet. In September 2015, all of the Unite d Nations M ember States
adopted a “shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future”. The
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) shown in Figure 5.1 are “an urgent call for action by all countries”
— developed and dev eloping — in a glob al partnership. They re cognize that ending po verty must go handin-hand with strategies that build e conomic growth, and address a range of social ne eds, including education,
1. Fernando, J. (2024, March 6). What is CSR? Corporate social responsibility explained. Investopedia.
202 | 5.1: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)

[Page 235]
Figure 5.1: United
Nations
Sustainable
Development
Goals.
health, equality and job opportunities, while tackling climate change and w orking to preserve our oceans and
forests.2

The SDGs are as follows:
1. No poverty
2. Zero hunger
3. Good health and well-being
4. Quality education
5. Gender equality
6. Clean water and sanitation
7. Affordable and clean energy
8. Decent work and economic growth
9. Industry, innovation, and infrastructure
10. Reduced inequalities
11. Sustainable cities and communities
12. Responsible consumption and production
13. Climate action
14. Life below water
15. Life on land
16. Peace, justice, and strong institutions
17. Partnerships for the goals
The 17 SDGs c ontain targets f or building a better w orld for the pe ople and the p lanet by 2030. Businesses,
non-profits, NGOs, and e ducational institutions have developed their own frameworks to address the SDGs
and meet individual targets. Sustainable development can be part of a company’s corporate social responsibility
program.
On September 14, 2022, P atagonia’s f ounder, Y von Chouinard, announc ed that he w as transf erring
ownership of the company, valued at $3 billion, to a trust and nonprofit de dicated to fighting climate change.
2. United Nations (n.d.). Sustainable development goals (SDGs).
5.1: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) | 203

[Page 236]
Rather than selling the c ompany or going pub lic, Chouinard ensure d that all profits (about $100 million
annually) w ould be use d to c ombat en vironmental issues. This is an e xample of ho w a business such as
Patagonia enabled progress on these SDG goals, serving to benefit society while reinforcing its brand and longterm mission. 3
The Principles for Responsible Management Education
(PRME)
The Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) is a United Nations-supported
initiative established in 2007 to integrate sustainability into business and management
education. Built on Seven Principles, PRME encourages academic institutions to equip future
leaders with the skills to balance economic, environmental, and social goals while advancing the
SDGs.
The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, calling on
businesses to align their strategies with universal principles on human rights, labour, the
environment, and anti-corruption. Aligned with the UN Global Compact, PRME’s vision is to
drive a global movement for responsible management education, while its mission is to
transform business education and develop decision-makers who contribute to sustainable
development. 4 As the largest organized relationship between the UN and management
education, PRME has over 800 signatory institutions worldwide committed to responsible
leadership. Since becoming a signatory in 2020, Conestoga College, School of Business has
worked to embed the PRME Principles and SDGs across the School and, as of 2024, has won
three awards for its reporting and engagement. Check out the School’s Sharing Information on
Progress Reports to learn more.
Attribution: © Anna Hohenadel, Accreditation Consultant, Conestoga College. Used under a
Creative Commons Attribution – Non-commercial Share Alike License.
3. Chouinard, Y. (n.d.). Earth is now our only shareholder. Patagonia.
4. PRME. (n.d.). About PRME.
204 | 5.1: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)

[Page 237]
Media Attributions
Figure 5.1: Unite d Nations Sustainab le Development Goals. © Unite d Nations, All Rights Reserv ed. Used
according to the SDG Guidelines AUG 2019 Final. The content of this publication has not been approved by
the United Nations and does not reflect the views of the United Nations or its officials or Member States.
5.1: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND THE UN'S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) | 205

[Page 238]
5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS
Let’s look at some of the w ays in which c ompanies can be “socially responsib le” in considering the claims of
various stakeholders: owners and investors, managers, employees, customers and communities.
Owners and Investors
Owners invest money in companies. In return, the people who run a company have a responsibility to increase
the v alue of the o wners’ investments through profitab le operations. M anagers also ha ve a responsibility to
provide owners (as w ell as other stakeho lders having financial interests, such as c reditors, suppliers, and the
government) with ac curate, reliable information about the perf ormance of the business. Some of the most
notorious ac counting fraud sc andals in business include: W orldCom inflating rev enue and assets, Lehman
Brothers repurchasing agreements, Bernie Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, Satyam falsifying records, and Enron hiding
debts.
Managers
Managers have what is kno wn as a fiduciary responsibility to owners: they’re responsib le for safeguarding
the company’s assets and handling its funds in a trustw orthy manner. Yet managers experience what is c alled
the agency problem: a situation in which their best interests do not align with those of the owners who employ
them. To enforce managers’ fiduciary responsibilities for a firm’s financial statements and accounting records,
Ontario’s Keeping the Promise f or a Strong E conomy Act (Budget M easures) 2002, also kno wn as Bill 198,
(a Canadian equivalent to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the Unite d States) requires CEOs and CFOs to
attest to their accuracy. The law also imposes penalties on corporate officers, auditors, board members, and any
others who commit fraud. You’ll learn more about this law in your accounting and business law courses.
Employees
Companies are responsible for providing employees with safe, healthy places to work, as well as environments
that are free from sexual harassment and all types of discrimination. They should also offer appropriate wages
and benefits. In the following sections, we’ll take a closer look at these areas of corporate responsibility.
206 | 5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS

[Page 239]
Wages and Benefits
At the very least, employers must obey la ws governing minimum wage and overtime pay. A minimum wage
is set b y the pro vincial go vernment. As of October 2024, the Ontario rate is $17.20 per hour. By la w,
employers must also provide certain benefits—Canada Pension Plan or CPP (retirement funds), emp loyment
insurance or EI (prote cts against loss of inc ome in case of job loss), and, depending on the industry , workers’
compensation (covers lost w ages and me dical costs in c ase of on-the-job injury). M ost large c ompanies pay
most of their w orkers more than minimum w age and offer broader benefits, including me dical, dental, and
vision care, as well as savings programs, in order to compete for talent.
Safety and Health
In Canada, workplace health and safety are governed by several key pieces of legislation designe d to protect
workers and ensure saf e w orking en vironments. These include the Canada Labour Code, pro vincial and
territorial health and saf ety legislation, and oc cupational health and saf ety regulations. There are f ourteen
jurisdictions in Canada —one f ederal, ten pro vincial and thre e territorial, each ha ving its o wn occupational
health and safety legislation. For most people in Canada, the agenc y that you would contact is the pro vincial
or territorial agency in the area where you work. There is one exception —federal legislation covers employees
of the federal government, including Crown agencies and corporations across Canada, regardless of location.1
The Federal Government of Canada reporte d a notic eable increase in w ork-related injuries in 2022, with
18,131 disabling injuries reported (an increase of 10%) from 2021, when 16,342 injuries were reported.2
In the Unite d States, w orkplace health and saf ety are primarily regulate d by the Oc cupational Safety and
Health Act (OSHA) of 1970, along with additional state-specific laws and regulations.
Together, these laws aim to safeguard workers from injury and illness in the workplace, ensuring compliance
through inspections, reporting systems, and penalties for non-compliance.
Customers
The purpose of any business is to satisfy customers, who reward businesses by buying their products. Sellers are
also responsible—both ethically and legally—for treating customers fairly. This means customers ha ve rights.
Customer rights include:
1. CCOHS. (2024). Health and safety legislation in Canada.
2. Employment and Social Dev elopment Canada. (2024). 2022 a nnual report — Oc cupational i njuries i n t he Ca nadian feder al ju risdiction.
Government of Canada.
5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS | 207

[Page 240]
A consumer shopping online
• The right to safe products. A company should sell no product that it suspects of being unsafe for buyers.
Thus, producers have an obligation to safety-test products before releasing them for public
consumption. The automobile industry, for example, conducts extensive safety testing before
introducing new models (though recalls remain common).
• The right to be informed about a product. Sellers should furnish consumers with the product information
that they need to make an informed purchase decision. That’s why pillows have labels identifying the
materials used to make them, for instance.
• The right to choose what to buy. Consumers have a right to decide which products to purchase, and sellers
should let them know what their options are. Pharmacists, for example, should tell patients when a
prescription can be filled with a cheaper brand-name or generic drug. Telephone companies should
explain alternative calling plans.
• The right to be heard. Companies must tell customers how to contact them with complaints or concerns.
They should also listen and respond.
Companies share the responsibility f or the legal and ethic al treatment of c onsumers with several government
agencies.
Consumer Protection
Legislation in Canada
In Canada, c onsumer c omplaints are regulate d b y
different lev els of go vernment, as w ell as nongovernment organizations. Finding the right place to
direct y our c omplaint is not alw ays eas y, but
understanding y our rights as a c onsumer is an
important part of the complaint-filing process.
Provincial and Territorial Consumer
Protection Legislation
Many consumer complaints fall under provincial and territorial jurisdiction, including issues related to:
• buying goods and services
• contracts
• the purchase, maintenance or repair of motor vehicles
• credit reporting agencies and the practices of collection agencies
208 | 5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS

[Page 241]
Federal Consumer Protection Legislation
The Government of Canada has an important role in consumer awareness and protection.
Federal agencies and dep artments are responsib le f or enf orcing legislation relate d to v arious issues,
including:
• consumer product safety
• food safety
• consumer product packaging and labelling
• anti-competitive practices, such as price fixing and misleading advertising
• privacy complaints
Additional Resources to Remember
For more relev ant areas where f ederal agencies and dep artments regulate c onsumer issues, c onsult the
Government of Canada w ebsite: Federal consumer protection legislation in Canada . In Ontario, customers
have the added protection of the Consumer Protection Act.
Did you know that prote ctions for Ontario c onsumers include a c ooling-off period for signed contracts?
The cooling-off period covers the following areas:
• purchase of a product or service from a door-to-door salesperson (also called a direct agreement)
• advance payment to join a fitness club or gym (also called a personal development contract)
• purchase of a newly-built condo (under the Condominium Act)
• getting a payday loan (under the Payday Loans Act)
• purchase of a timeshare
Communities
For obvious reasons, most c ommunities see getting a new business as an asset and view losing one, espe cially
a large employer, as a detriment. After all, the e conomic impact of business activities on loc al communities is
substantial: they provide jobs, pay taxes, and support loc al education, health, and re creation programs. Both
big and small businesses donate funds to c ommunity projects, encourage employees to v olunteer their time,
and donate e quipment and products f or a v ariety of activities. Larger c ompanies can make greater financial
contributions.
Many large corporations support various charities, an activity called corporate philanthropy. Some donate
a perc entage of sales or profits to w orthwhile c auses. Loblaws, one of Canada ’s largest groc ery retailers,
is in volved in numerous c ommunity initiativ es, espe cially f ocused on f ood se curity and en vironmental
5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS | 209

[Page 242]
sustainability. Through its Lob law’s Good F ood Program, the c ompany w orks to re duce f ood w aste and
help Canadians in ne ed. They pro vide food donations to loc al charities and help fund nutrition programs.
Additionally, Loblaws has worked to help c ommunities during times of c risis, such as through their support
for food banks and disaster relief efforts.3
Telus is a prominent Canadian tele communications c ompany kno wn f or its c ommitment to social
responsibility. Through its T elus Friendly Future F oundation, the c ompany supports initiativ es focused on
education, healthc are, and c ommunity w ellness. The f oundation has in vested in impro ving ac cess to
technology, especially for underserved communities, and has donate d millions of do llars to support mental
health programs, healthcare initiatives, and environmental sustainability.4
These c ompanies not only c ontribute financially but also engage in programs that benefit the bro ader
community through direct action, volunteerism, and supporting local organizations.
Media Attributions
“Shopping, Online, E-commerce image” by justynafaliszek, used under the Pixabay license.
3. Loblaw Companies Limited. (n.d.). Helping Canadians live life well.
4. Telus. (n.d.). Funding meaningful change.
210 | 5.2: CSR AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS

[Page 243]
5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID
Carroll’s Pyramid is a widely use d CSR framew ork f or situating c orporate social responsibility that
categorizes a company’s responsibilities as a who le in four easy-to-understand levels. In this model, the f ocus
is on managers, not o wners, as the princip als involved in the c ompany’s relationships with its stakeho lders.
Owners are the stakeho lders who in vest risk c apital in the firm in e xpectation of a financial return. Other
stakeholders include employees, suppliers, and the communities in which the firm does business. Proponents
of this model ho ld that customers, who pro vide the firm with rev enue, ha ve a spe cial claim on managers ’
attention.
The pyramid sho wn in Figure 5.2 pro vides Archie Carro ll’s definition of CSR. The p yramid also helps
businesses to understand their p hilanthropic, c ommunity outreach initiativ es, donations to charities, or
participation in social justic e c auses, ethic al responsibilities, legal responsibilities, and e conomic
responsibilities.

5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID | 211

[Page 244]
Figure 5.2: Carroll’s Corporate Social Responsibility Pyramid. [See image description.]

Economic Responsibilities
Economic responsibility refers to the practice of making financial decisions based on a commitment to doing
good. To uphold economic responsibility, business leaders are challenged to think past operational cost savings
and instead put their obligation to corporate citizenship at the heart of all financial decisions.1
As a fundamental c ondition or re quirement of e xistence, businesses ha ve an e conomic responsibility to
the society that permitte d them to be c reated and sustaine d. At first, it ma y se em unusual to think about
an e conomic e xpectation as a social responsibility , but society e xpects business organizations to be ab le to
sustain themselves, and the only w ay this is possib le is b y being profitable and ab le to inc entivize owners or
1. benevity. (n.d.). The four main types of corporate social responsibility your business should consider (and why).
212 | 5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID

[Page 245]
shareholders to invest and have enough resources to continue in operation. In its origins, society views business
organizations as institutions that will produc e and sell the goods and servic es society needs and desires. As an
inducement, society allows businesses to make a profit. Businesses c reate profits when they add v alue, and in
doing this, they benefit all the business stakeholders.
Profits are necessary both to rew ard investors/owners and for business growth when profits are rein vested
back into the business. CEOs, managers, and entrepreneurs will attest to the vital f oundational importance
of profitability and return on in vestment as motiv ators for business suc cess. Virtually all e conomic systems
of the w orld recognize the vital importanc e of businesses making profits to societies. While thinking about
its economic responsibilities, businesses emp loy many business c oncepts that are dire cted towards financial
effectiveness — attention to rev enues, cost-effectiveness, investments, marketing, strategies, operations, and a
host of professional concepts focused on augmenting the long-term financial success of the organization.
In today’s hypercompetitive global business en vironment, economic performance and sustainability ha ve
become urgent topics. Those firms that are not suc cessful in their e conomic or financial sp here go out of
business, and an y other responsibilities that ma y be incumbent upon them be come moot c onsiderations.
Therefore, economic responsibility is a baseline requirement that must be met in a competitive business world,
and so economic responsibility is a critical part of corporate social responsibility.
Corporate citizenship is the extent to which a business meets its legal, ethical, and economic responsibilities.
Investors are inc reasingly loo king f or c ompanies with socially responsib le orientations, which c an lead to
positive stock returns and increased confidence among investors.2
Legal Responsibilities
Businesses ha ve a legal r esponsibility to c omply with la ws and regulations at the loc al, national, and
international levels. Society has not only sanctioned businesses as economic entities, but it has also established
the minimal ground rules under which businesses are e xpected to operate and function. These ground rules
include la ws and regulations, and in eff ect refle ct society’s view of “ codified ethics ”. They articulate
fundamental notions of f air business practic es as estab lished b y la wmakers at f ederal, pro vincial/state and
local levels. Businesses are e xpected and required to comply with these la ws and regulations as a c ondition of
operating. It is not an ac cident that compliance officers now occupy an important and high-lev el position in
company organization charts.
2. Hayes, A. (2022, December 29). Corporate citizenship: What it means, five stages, and examples. Investopedia.
5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID | 213

[Page 246]
Tax evasion is a criminal offence.
While me eting these legal responsibilities,
managers must do the following:
• Perform in a manner consistent with the
expectations of government and law
• Comply with various federal, provincial/state,
and local regulations
• Conduct themselves as law-abiding corporate
citizens
• Fulfill all their legal obligations to societal
stakeholders
• Provide goods and services that at least meet
minimal legal requirements
Operating a business in Canada in volves adhering to v arious la ws, regulations, and acts at the f ederal,
provincial/territorial, and municip al lev els. Business la w refers to rules, statutes, c odes, and regulations
established to pro vide a legal framew ork within which business ma y be c onducted. Businesses are subje ct to
many laws; some pertain to operations, while others pertain to human resourc es and sustainab le practices.
Legal compliance refers to c onducting a business within the boundaries of all the legal regulations of that
industry. Legislation governing business practice includes (but is not limited to) the following:
• Income Tax Act, Excise Tax Act
• Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act
• Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act
• Consumer Protection Act
• Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act
• Food and Drug Act
• Weights and Measures Act
• Contract law
• Textile Labelling Act
• Hazardous Product Act
• Consumer Product Safety Act
• Motor Vehicle Safety Act
• Aeronautics Act
• Employment Standards Act
• Workplace Health and Safety Act
• Canada Labour Code
• Sale of Goods Act
• Intellectual property la w (i.e., patents, copyrights, trade
secrets, and trademarks)
• Personal Inf ormation Prote ction and Ele ctronic
Documents Act (PIPEDA)
• Competition Act
• Canadian Code of Advertising Standards
• Canadian Business Corporations Act (i. e.,
incorporation)
Employment-related legislation covers the following subjects: employment standards, human rights, federal
and provincial privacy, occupational health and safety, workers’ compensation, and labour regulations.
The Employment Equity Act states that no person shall be denied employment opportunities or benefits
214 | 5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID

[Page 247]
for reasons unrelate d to ability . It se eks to impro ve the emp loyment c onditions e xperienced b y w omen,
Indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities, and visible minorities.3
The Canadian Charter of Righ ts and F reedoms is a binding legal document that prote cts the b asic
human rights of all Canadians, such as fundamental fre edoms, democratic rights, mobility rights, legal rights,
equality rights, and language rights. The Charter is often cited in legal cases pertaining to human rights issues.
While the Charter allows all Canadians to express their thoughts and opinions freely, it also protects everyone’s
right to be treated fairly, without discrimination.
The Canadian Human Rights Act extends the law to ensure e qual opportunity to individuals who ma y
be victims of disc riminatory practices based on a set of pro hibited grounds: race, colour, religion, national or
ethnic origin, age, se x, sexual orientation, marital status, f amily status, disability, or conviction for an offence
for which a p ardon has be en grante d.4
It app lies to all f ederally regulate d activities, but each pro vince and
territory has its own anti-discrimination laws that apply to non-federally regulated activities.
Federally regulated organizations must c omply with the Canada Labour Code , while other organizations
are subject to the Emp loyment Standards and Labour Codes of the individual pro vinces and territories. F or
example, in Ontario, under the Employment Standards Act (ESA), y ou can learn about your employee rights
and obligations in this Employment Standards Act guide which desc ribes the rules about minimum w age,
hours of work limits, termination of employment, public holidays, pregnancy and parental leave, severance pay,
vacation and more.
Ethical Responsibilities
The normative expectations of most societies hold that laws are essential but not sufficient. In addition to what
is required by laws and regulations, society expects businesses to operate and conduct their affairs in an ethical
fashion. Businesses have ethical responsibilities to ensure fair practices and treat customers, emp loyees, and
stakeholders with respect.
Taking on ethical responsibilities implies that organizations will embrac e those activities, norms, standards
and practices that, ev en though they are not c odified into la w, are e xpected, nonetheless. P art of the ethic al
expectation is that businesses will be responsive to the “spirit” of the law, not just the letter of the law. Another
aspect of the ethical expectation is that businesses will conduct their affairs in a fair and objective fashion, even
in those c ases when la ws do not pro vide guidance or dictate c ourses of action. Thus, ethic al responsibilities
embrace those activities, standards, po licies, and practic es that are e xpected or pro hibited b y society ev en
3. Employment and Social Development Canada. (n.d.). Overview of policy issues and background—Employment Equity Act Review. Government of
Canada.
4. Government of Canada. (n.d.). Canadian Human Rights Act. Justice Laws Website.
5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID | 215

[Page 248]
though they are not c odified into la w. The go al of these e xpectations is that businesses will be responsib le
for and responsiv e to the full range of norms, standards, v alues, principles, and e xpectations that reflect and
honour what c onsumers, emp loyees, o wners and the c ommunity regard as c onsistent with respe ct to the
protection of stakeho lders’ moral rights. The distinction betw een legal and ethic al expectations can often be
tricky. Legal expectations certainly are based on ethical premises. But ethic al expectations carry these further.
In essence, then, both c ontain a strong ethic al dimension or character, and the diff erence hinges upon the
mandate society has given business through legal codification.
While meeting these ethical responsibilities, managers must do the following:
• Perform in a manner consistent with expectations of societal mores and ethical norms
• Recognize and respect new or evolving ethical/moral norms adopted by society
• Prevent ethical norms from being compromised in order to achieve business goals
• Be good corporate citizens by doing what is expected morally or ethically
• Recognize that business integrity and ethical behaviour go beyond mere compliance with laws and
regulations
As an o verlay to all that has be en said about ethic al responsibilities, it also should be clearly state d that in
addition to society’s e xpectations regarding ethic al performance, there are also the great, univ ersal principles
of moral p hilosophy such as rights, justic e, and utilitarianism that also should inf orm and guide c ompany
decisions and practices.
Philanthropic Responsibilities
Corporate philanthropy includes all f orms of business giving. Corporate p hilanthropy embraces a business’s
voluntary or discretionary activities. Philanthropic responsibility is a business’s commitment to improving
society through charitable activities, community support, and social initiativ es. It’s a key aspe ct of corporate
social responsibility (CSR), and it emphasizes that businesses should not only focus on profit-making.
Philanthropy or business giving ma y not be a responsibility in a literal sense, but it is normally e xpected
by businesses toda y and is a p art of the ev eryday e xpectations of the pub lic. Certainly, the quantity and
nature of these activities are v oluntary or disc retionary. They are guide d by businesses’ desire to p articipate
in social activities that are not mandate d, not required by law, and not generally e xpected of businesses in an
ethical sense. Ha ving said that, some businesses do giv e charitably, partly based on ethic al motivation. That
is, they w ant to do what is right f or society. The pub lic does ha ve a sense that businesses will “giv e back,”
and this c onstitutes the “ expectation” aspe ct of the responsibility . When one e xamines the social c ontract
between business and society toda y, it is typic ally f ound that the citizenry e xpects businesses to be good
corporate citizens just as individuals are. T o fulfill its perc eived p hilanthropic responsibilities, c ompanies
engage in a variety of giving forms — gifts of monetary resources, product and service donations, volunteerism
216 | 5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID

[Page 249]
by emp loyees and management, c ommunity dev elopment and an y other disc retionary c ontribution to the
community or stakeholder groups that make up the community.
Although there is sometimes an altruistic motiv ation f or business giving, most c ompanies engage in
philanthropy as a practic al way to demonstrate their good citizenship . This is done to enhanc e or augment
the c ompany’s reputation and not ne cessarily f or nob le or self-sac rificing reasons. The primary diff erence
between the ethical and philanthropic categories in the four-part model is that business giving is not necessarily
expected in a moral or ethic al sense. Society expects such gifts, but it does not label c ompanies as “unethical”
based on their giving p atterns or whether the c ompanies are giving at the desire d level. As a consequence, the
philanthropic responsibility is more disc retionary or voluntary on the business ’s part. Hence, this category is
often thought of as good “ corporate citizenship.” Having said all this, p hilanthropy historically has been one
of the most important elements of CSR definitions, and this continues today.
In summary, the f our-part CSR definition f orms a c onceptual framew ork that includes the e conomic,
legal, ethic al, and p hilanthropic or disc retionary e xpectations that society p laces on businesses at a giv en
point in time. And, in terms of understanding each type of responsibility , it could be said that the e conomic
responsibility is “re quired” of business b y society; the legal responsibility also is “re quired” of business b y
society; the ethic al responsibility is “ expected” of business b y society; and the p hilanthropic responsibility is
“expected/desired” of business by society. As time passes, what exactly each of these four categories means may
change or evolve as well.
The pyramid should not be interpreted to mean that business is e xpected to fulfill its social responsibilities
in some se quential, hierarchic al f ashion, starting at the b ase. Rather, business is e xpected to fulfill all
responsibilities simultaneously. The positioning or ordering of the f our categories of responsibility striv es to
portray the fundamental or b asic nature of these f our categories to a business ’s existence in society . As said
before, economic and legal responsibilities are required; ethical and philanthropic responsibilities are expected
and desired. The representation being portra yed, therefore, is that the total social responsibility of business
entails the c oncurrent fulfillment of the firm’s e conomic, legal, ethic al, and p hilanthropic responsibilities.
Stated in the form of an equation, it would read as follows:
Economic Responsibilities + Legal Responsibilities + Ethical Responsibilities + Philanthropic
Responsibilities = Total Corporate Social Responsibility.
Stated in more practical and managerial terms, the CSR-driven firm should strive to make a profit, obey the
law, engage in ethical practices and be a good c orporate citizen. When seen in this way, the pyramid is viewed
as a unified or integrated whole.
Media Attributions
“Figure 5.2: Carroll’s Corporate Social Responsibility Pyramid ” is adapted from Article: Carroll’s Corporate
5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID | 217

[Page 250]
Social Responsibility Pyramid in Fundamentals of Business: Canadian E dition, © Business F aculty from
Ontario Colleges and eCampusOntario Program Managers, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
“Taxes, Tax evasion, Police image” by Alexas_Fotos, used under the Pixabay license.
Image descriptions
Figure 5.2
A triangle is divided into four horizontal sections, each labelled with different levels of responsibilities, forming
a hierarchy. The base section is the widest, labelled “Economic Responsibilities,” with the notes “Be Profitable”
at left and “Required by society” at right.
The se cond se ction is “Legal Responsibilities,” with the notes “Obey la ws and Regulations ” at left and
“Required by society” at right.
The third section is “Ethical Responsibilities,” with the notes “Do what is just and f air. Avoid harm” at left
and “Expected by society” at right.
The topmost section is “Philanthropic Responsibilities,” with the notes “Be a good corporate citizen” at left
and “Desired by society” at right.
[back to figure]
218 | 5.3: CARROLL’S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PYRAMID

[Page 251]
Power plant emitting gases
5.4: THE CSR AND ESG FRAMEWORK
Measuring CSR
CSR reporting has evolved from relatively simple environmental statements to comprehensive triple-bottomline (people, planet, profit) reporting, which is use d as a framew ork for measuring and reporting c orporate
performance against economic, social, and environmental parameters. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
is typic ally measure d through a c ombination of quantitativ e and qualitativ e metrics that assess ho w well a
company is me eting its social, en vironmental, and ethic al ob ligations. Different organizations use v arious
frameworks, tools, and reporting standards to evaluate CSR performance. Some of the most common methods
include the Glob al Reporting Initiativ e (GRI), Sustainability Ac counting Standards Bo ard (SASB), Key
Performance Indic ators (KPI), Do w Jones Sustainability Inde x (DJSI), stakeho lder f eedback, and
benchmarking.
ESG stands f or En vironmental, Social, and
Governance. It ref ers to a set of standards use d by
businesses to ev aluate and address their imp act on
the world, beyond just financial perf ormance. The
FTSE4Good Ind ex S eries is designe d to measure
the perf ormance of c ompanies demonstrating
specific En vironmental, Social and Go vernance
(ESG) practic es. T ransparent management and
clearly define d ESG c riteria make FTSE4Good
indices suitab le too ls f or a wide v ariety of market
participants when c reating or assessing sustainab le
investment products.1
There has been an increasing focus on corporate sustainability and reporting, and a question often aske d is
what is the difference between CSR and ESG? CSR and ESG are diff erent frameworks that companies use to
assess sustainability. In short, CSR ma y be use d as an internal framew ork, while ESG pro vides a measure of
1. FTSE Russell. (n.d.). Overview.
5.4: THE CSR AND ESG FRAMEWORK | 219

[Page 252]
assessment for investors. It could be argued that ESG is currently overtaking CSR as a measure of sustainability
in the corporate world.2
There are sev eral Canadian organizations that pro vide advic e and guidanc e to businesses about ho w to
become better c orporate citizens. The Canadian Business f or Social Responsibility (CBSR) is one such
organization. CBSR is a non-profit organization that helps Canadian c ompanies integrate sustainability and
social responsibility into their core strategies and operations. 3
Companies like LSEG Data & Analytics headquartere d in the Unite d Kingdom off ers ESG data and
analytics on thousands of c ompanies globally that is widely use d by Canadian financial institutions and asset
managers.
Greenwashing
Greenwashing refers to the practic e of misleading c onsumers or stakeholders into believing that a c ompany,
product, or initiative is more environmentally friendly or sustainable than it actually is. Comp anies engage in
greenwashing by exaggerating, omitting, or fabricating claims about their environmental practices to enhance
their reputation or market appeal.
An example of a Canadian c ompany accused of gre enwashing is Shell Canada. The c ompany launched its
“Drive Carbon Neutral” program in 2020, claiming that the carbon emissions from fuel sold at its gas stations
would be offset through in vestments in f orest c onservation proje cts. Ho wever, Gre enpeace Canada raise d
concerns about the reliability of these claims, stating that the offsets were overstated or ineffective. They argued
that the program distracte d consumers from the ne ed for Shell to re duce fossil fuel usage dire ctly. Following
these criticisms, Shell Canada discontinued the program in 2023.4
Suncor Energy has f aced allegations of gre enwashing due to its CEO’s statements about de carbonization
efforts. Critics, including M embers of Parliament, questioned the company’s commitment to climate change
initiatives, suggesting that its strategies and pub lic communications did not align with substantiv e action on
emissions reduction.5
These c ases highlight the importanc e of transp arency and v erifiable claims in c orporate en vironmental
initiatives.
2. Byrne, D. (n.d.). What is the difference between CSR and ESG? Corporate Governance Institute.
3. CBSR. (n.d.). About—CBSR.
4. Meyer, C. & Syed, F. (2024, February 9). What do ‘clean’ and ‘green’ actually mean? Canadian watchdog receives complaints about environmental
claims by Shell, RBC, and Enbridge. The Narwhal.
5. Rabson, M. (2023, October 16). Suncor Energy CEO says company committed to decarbonization, is accused of greenwashing. Global News.
220 | 5.4: THE CSR AND ESG FRAMEWORK

[Page 253]
Media Attributions
“Power plant, Cooling tower, Coal-fired power station image” by denfran, used under the Pixabay license.
5.4: THE CSR AND ESG FRAMEWORK | 221

[Page 254]
5.5: PERSONAL AND BUSINESS ETHICS
Ethics is the p hilosophical discipline concerned with what is morally good and b ad, and morally right and
wrong. Ethics, morals, and v alues are complex principles. Depending on the person, culture, time, situation,
age, gender, business, or context, these concepts can change. People’s morals or ethics are shaped when they are
relatively young and are influenced not only b y parents but by society, culture, and in some c ases by religion
as well. Ethics can present challenges, dilemmas, and lapses of judgment. These challenges occur because these
influences complicate how people make ethical decisions or think about ethics personally or professionally.
Ideally, prison terms, heavy fines, and civil suits would discourage corporate misconduct, but, unfortunately,
many e xperts suspe ct that this assumption is a bit optimistic. Whatev er the c ondition of the ethic al
environment in the near future, one thing se ems clear: the ne xt generation entering business, which includes
most of y ou, will find a w orld much diff erent than the one that a waited the previous generation. Re cent
history tells us in no unc ertain terms that toda y’s business students, many of whom are tomorro w’s business
leaders, need a much sharper understanding of the difference between what is and isn’t ethically acceptable. As
a business student, one of your key tasks is learning how to recognize and deal with the ethical challenges that
will confront you. Asked what he looked for in a new hire, Warren Buffett, the world’s most successful investor,
replied: “I look for three things. The first is personal integrity, the second is intelligence, and the third is a high
energy level.” He paused and then adde d: “But if y ou don’t have the first, the se cond two don’t matter”.1
As
business students, it is important to begin to understand how ethics affects you — what are your ethics like? If
you had a compass, where would you fall? Studying ethics will help you understand this.
From a business perspe ctive, ethics is ev en more c omplex. Ho w do organizations kno w ho w to do the
right thing? Ho w do they kno w how to be socially responsib le or ho w to practic e effective corporate social
responsibility? Part of this kno wledge has to do with the leaders and culture of the organization. P art of the
challenge is that things like conflicts occur, such as conflicts of interest, when individuals must choose between
taking actions that promote their personal interest o ver the interests of others or c onflicts of lo yalty, when
individuals have a responsibility to be lo yal to a friend, f amily member, or emp loyer and that c onflicts with
their ability to act ethically. These types of conflicts present real ethical dilemmas that make it very challenging
to figure out how to do what’s right.
It’s in the best interest of a c ompany to operate ethic ally. Trustworthy companies are better at attracting
and ke eping customers, talente d emp loyees, and c apital. Those tainte d b y questionab le ethics suff er from
1. Gostick, A., & Telford, D. (2003, April 3). The integrity advantage: How taking the high road creates a competitive advantage in business (3rd ed.).
Gibbs Smith.
222 | 5.5: PERSONAL AND BUSINESS ETHICS

[Page 255]
dwindling customer bases, employee turnover, and investor mistrust. Acting ethically in business means more
than simply obeying app licable laws and regulations. It also means being honest, doing no harm to others,
competing fairly, and de clining to put y our own interests abo ve those of y our company, its o wners, and its
workers. If you’re in business, you obviously need a strong sense of what’s right and wrong. You need personal
conviction to do what’s right, even if it means doing something that’s difficult or personally disadvantageous.
5.5: PERSONAL AND BUSINESS ETHICS | 223

[Page 256]
Making ethical decisions may take some thought
5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES,
AND DILEMMAS
Ethical issues are the difficult social questions that in volve some lev el of c ontroversy over what is the right
thing to do. Environmental protection is an example of a commonly discussed ethical issue because there can
be tradeoffs between ecological and economic factors.
An ethical lapse is a mistake or error in judgment that produces a harmful outcome. It is a failure to follow
proper ethical principles. An ethical lapse can be viewed in two ways: as either a clearly unethical decision or a
mistake that resulted in an unethical outcome. It is not considered a complete lack of integrity, just an oversight
or an ethic al blind spot.1
Ethical lapses often refle ct a f ailure of leadership , culture, or s ystems that prioritize
accountability and integrity. Maintaining robust ethics training and a strong corporate governance framework
can help prevent such lapses.
Ethical dilemmas are situations in which it is difficult f or an individual to make de cisions either be cause
the right course of action is unclear or be cause it carries some potential negative consequences for the person
or people involved.
Make no mistake about it: when y ou enter the
business world, you’ll find y ourself in situations in
which y ou’ll ha ve to choose the appropriate
behaviour. Ho w, f or e xample, w ould y ou answ er
questions like the following?
• Is it okay to accept a pair of sports tickets from
a supplier?
• Can I buy office supplies from my brother-inlaw?
• Is it appropriate to donate company funds to a
local charity?
• If I find out that a friend is about to be fired, can I warn her?
Obviously, the types of situations are numerous and v aried. Fortunately, we can break them do wn into a few
1. Mayers, N. (2017, September 26). What are ethical lapses? Bizfluent.
224 | 5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS

[Page 257]
basic categories: issues of honesty and integrity, conflicts of interest and loyalty, bribes versus gifts, and whistleblowing. Let’s look a little more closely at each of these categories.
Issues of Honesty and Integrity
An ethical lapse in honesty and integrity occurs when an individual, organization, or company fails to uphold
fundamental ethic al princip les, such as truthfulness, transp arency, and adherenc e to moral standards. It
typically in volves actions or de cisions that prioritize self-interest, c onvenience, or profit o ver f airness,
accountability, and ethical responsibility.
A re cent e xample of an ethic al lapse in volving honesty and integrity in a Canadian c ompany is the c ase
of PwC Canada. The ac counting firm w as found to ha ve systemic answer-sharing among emp loyees during
mandatory internal training assessments between 2016 and 2020. These assessments were designed to evaluate
professional c ompetencies, but man y emp loyees, including senior associates and managers, p articipated in
or facilitated widespread sharing of answ ers. This practic e reflected a f ailure in f ostering a culture of ethic al
integrity and ensuring independent c ompletion of assessments. PwC Canada self-reporte d the issue, leading
to fines totalling $1.45 million impose d by the Chartered Professional Accountants of Ontario. The incident
undermined pub lic trust in the firm and raise d questions about its internal quality c ontrols and ethic al
standards.2
A recent example of a U.S. c ompany facing an ethic al lapse relate d to honesty and integrity in volves the
biotech c ompany Illumina. In July 2023, the European Commission fine d Illumina €432 million
(approximately $476 million USD) f or merging with the c ancer detection company Grail without obtaining
the ne cessary regulatory appro val. The Commission c alled this action an “unpre cedented and v ery serious
infringement” of EU merger c ontrol rules. This lapse refle cts ethic al c oncerns o ver c ompliance with
international regulations and transp arency in business operations, as the c ompany kno wingly b ypassed
established legal procedures to expedite the merger.3
If you work for a company that settles for its employees merely obeying the law and following a few internal
regulations, you might think about moving on. If you’re being asked to deceive customers about the quality or
value of your product, you’re in an ethically unhealthy environment.
2. Ellis, C. (2023, De cember 15). What went wrong at PwC Ca nada: Accounting firm agrees to pa y $1.45 mi llion to sett le exam cheating scandal.
Canadian Accountant.
3. Chee, F. Y. (2023, July 14). Illumina hit with record $476 million EU antitrust fine over Grail deal. Reuters.
5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS | 225

[Page 258]
Conflicts of Interest
Conflicts of interest occur when individuals must choose between taking actions that promote their personal
interests o ver the interests of others or taking actions that don’t. A c onflict can e xist, f or e xample, when
an employee’s own interests interf ere with, or ha ve the potential to interf ere with, the best interests of the
company’s stakeholders (management, customers, and owners). Let’s say that you work for a company with a
contract to cater events at your college and that your uncle owns a local bakery. Obviously, this situation could
create a conflict of interest (or at least giv e the appearance of one, which is a prob lem in itself). When y ou’re
called on to furnish desserts f or a lunche on, you might be tempte d to send some business y our uncle’s w ay
even if it’s not in the best interest of your employer. What should you do? You should disclose the connection
to your boss, who can then arrange things so that your personal interests don’t conflict with the company’s.
By the same princip le, an emp loyee shouldn’t use priv ate inf ormation about an emp loyer f or personal
financial benefit. Say that y ou learn from a c oworker at y our pharmaceutical company that one of its most
profitable drugs will be pulled off the market because of dangerous side effects. The recall will severely hurt the
company’s financial performance and cause its stock price to plummet. Before the news be comes public, you
sell all the stock y ou own in the company. What you’ve done is called insider trading—acting on inf ormation
that is not a vailable to the general pub lic, either b y trading on it or pro viding it to others who trade on it.
Insider trading is illegal, and you could go to jail for it.
Conflicts of Loyalty
You ma y one da y find y ourself in a bind betw een being lo yal to y our emp loyer or to a friend or f amily
member. Perhaps y ou just learne d that a c oworker, a friend of y ours, is about to be do wnsized out of his
job. You also happen to kno w that he and his wif e are getting ready to make a deposit on a house near the
company headquarters. From a work standpoint, you know that you shouldn’t divulge the information. From
a friendship standpoint, though, you feel it’s your duty to tell your friend. Wouldn’t he tell you if the situation
were rev ersed? So , what do y ou do? As tempting as it is to be lo yal to y our friend, y ou shouldn’t tell. As
an employee, your primary responsibility is to y our employer. You might be ab le to soften y our dilemma b y
convincing a manager with the appropriate authority to tell your friend the bad news before he puts down his
deposit.
A notable example of a conflict of loyalty in Canadian business arose in the legal dispute in volving Groupe
Excellence, a Quebe c-based insurance company. This c ase centred on tw o company directors who w ere also
presidents of the c ompany, who f ailed to inf orm the ma jority shareho lders about a potential ac quisition
interest from Industrial Allianc e Insuranc e. Instead, the dire ctors se cretly negotiate d the deal, bought out
the shareho lders’ stakes, and so ld them to Industrial Allianc e at a signific antly higher profit, depriving the
shareholders of substantial financial benefits. The Supreme Court of Canada e xamined whether the directors
breached their duties of lo yalty, good f aith, and disclosure to the shareho lders. It c oncluded that while they
226 | 5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS

[Page 259]
did not o we a fiduciary duty dire ctly to shareho lders, they breache d an imp lied ob ligation of good f aith
due to a sep arate compensation agreement that re quired them to act in the shareho lders’ best interests. This
lapse resulted in legal actions against the dire ctors, highlighting the delic ate balance of duties and c onflicts in
corporate governance. This case illustrates how conflicts of loyalty can arise when individuals in leadership
positions prioritize personal gains o ver their prof essional ob ligations, leading to ethic al and legal
repercussions.4
Ethical Dilemma
In the video below, an ethical dilemma is presented. Dilemmas are situations that you find yourself
in when you have to make a decision that does not have a clear answer. Like in the dilemma
presented in the video, what would have happened if Amber had taken the money? As the video
discusses, it’s not the right thing to do. However, the dilemmas lie within the context of the
situation as well. What if Amber were living in poverty? What’s the right thing to do in that
situation? Would it change your response? To help guide us, we need to fall back on our morals, the
ethical framework that helps us to be honest and go through life and situations with integrity.
Play the YouTube video below, “Ethics,” to review an ethical dilemma experienced by Amber.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=184#oembed-1
Transcript for “Ethics” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: BrainPop. (2017, August 23). Ethics [Video]. YouTube.
4. Mathieu, J. & Weir, O. (2023, December 16). Important takeaways for D&O duty of loyalty and contractual compensation from the recent Supreme
Court decision. McCarthy Tetrault.
5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS | 227

[Page 260]
Bribes Versus Gifts
It is not uncommon in business to give and receive small gifts of appreciation, but when is a gift unacceptable?
When is it really a bribe?
There is often a fine line between a gift and a bribe. The f ollowing information may help to draw that line,
because it raises key issues in determining how a gesture should be interpreted: the cost of the item, the timing
of the gift, the type of gift, and the c onnection between the giver and the re ceiver. If you are on the re ceiving
end, it is a good idea to refuse any item that is overly generous or given for the purpose of influencing a decision.
Because accepting even small gifts may violate company rules, always check on company policy.
In both Canada and the U.S., companies have struggled to define clear distinctions between gifts and bribes.
A gift intended to maintain goodwill or celebrate a partnership might be ethical if it’s modest and transparent.
However, lavish or undisclosed gifts designed to influence decision-making cross the line into bribery. Policies
like those of the FCP A emphasize transparency, proper re cording, and adherenc e to anti-c orruption laws to
avoid such lapses.
An example of an ethical lapse involving bribes versus gifts in a Canadian company includes the high-profile
case of SNC-La valin. The M ontreal-based engine ering firm f aced allegations of bribery relate d to se curing
business in Lib ya. The ac cusations included millions of do llars in p ayments classified as bribes, disguise d as
legitimate business e xpenses, which raise d ethic al c oncerns about distinguishing ac ceptable c orporate gifts
from outright corruption. This led to legal actions under Canada’s Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act
and significant reputational damage.5
In the U.S., Walmart faced scrutiny for alleged bribery practices in Mexico, where e xecutives were accused
of p aying off officials to e xpedite permits and c onstruction appro vals. The in vestigation rev ealed s ystemic
issues in distinguishing ethical gifts or facilitation payments from bribes, ultimately resulting in a $282 million
settlement under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA).6
Both cases highlight the importanc e of robust c ompliance programs to ensure clear po licies about what
constitutes acceptable business conduct, emphasizing the need for transparency and adherence to anti-bribery
laws.
Whistle-Blowing
A whistleblower is someone who reports w aste, fraud, abuse, c orruption, or dangers to pub lic health and
safety to some one who is in a position to re ctify the wrongdoing. A whistleb lower typic ally w orks inside
5. Bronskill, J. (2022, January 8). Overseas Canadian firms being probed for corruption: RCMP. Global News.
6. Bose, N. (2019, June 20). Walmart will pay $282 million to settle a seven-year global corruption probe. Reuters.
228 | 5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS

[Page 261]
Blow the whistle when you identify illegal business
practices.
the organization where the wrongdoing is taking p lace; ho wever, being an agenc y or c ompany “insider” is
not essential to serving as a whistleb lower. What matters is that the individual discloses inf ormation about
wrongdoing that otherwise would not be known.7
An e xample of whistleb lowing in a Canadian
company in volves Coinsquare, a c ryptocurrency
trading p latform. From 2018 to 2019, Coinsquare
engaged in “w ash trading,” where an algorithm
created f ake buy-and-sell orders to inflate trading
volumes artificially . A whistleb lower within the
company, who discovered and reported this practice
to senior management, f aced significant retaliation,
including threats to their emp loyment and eventual
termination after taking stress leave due to the issue.
The Ontario Se curities Commission (OSC)
investigated and determine d that Coinsquare’s
actions vio lated se curities la ws and whistleb lower
protections. As p art of a settlement, the c ompany
admitted to the reprisal and agre ed to strengthen its
whistleblower policies, while the f ormer CEO faced
fines and a ban on serving as an officer or director.8
In the past few years, a notable whistleblower case
in the USA in volved BofI Federal Bank (no w called
Axos Bank), where an internal auditor, Charles
Erhart, reporte d c oncerns about the b ank’s risky
business practices. He had raise d alarms about high
deposit concentrations and risky loans to potentially
fraudulent entities. After Erhart reporte d these
issues internally, he was fired, and the case progressed to a legal battle under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) for
whistleblower protection. In 2023, the jury sided with Erhart, awarding him significant compensation, and the
court denied the bank’s attempt to overturn the decision. The case highlighted concerns over shareholder fraud
and internal controls violations.9
7. NWC. (n.d.). What is a whistleblower?
8. BLG. (2020, August 13). OSC’s first whistleblower reprisal case is a cautionary tale for companies.
9. House, B. B., Johnston, P. L., Noller, L. M., & Hansfield, T. P. (2023, October 24). A review of recent whistleblower developments. Foley.
5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS | 229

[Page 262]
Another e xample of a whistleb lower c ase in the USA oc curred at Dono van Salv age Works, a Dela ware
salvage yard. An emp loyee, a smelter operator, reporte d a saf ety hazard in volving a prop ane leak at the y ard.
After the employee refused to continue working under unsafe conditions, he was terminated by the company
in retaliation f or reporting the issue. F ollowing an in vestigation b y the Oc cupational Saf ety and Health
Administration (OSHA), the c ompany w as found guilty of wrongful termination and w as ordere d to p ay
$40,000 in back wages and damages.10
Despite significant financial in vestment in its whistleb lower prote ction framework, Canada has f ailed to
adequately prote ct individuals reporting misc onduct. Ov er 500 whistleb lowers f aced reprisals without
sufficient remedies. This was highlighted in international assessments, which rate d Canada’s legal framework
for whistleblower protections as among the worst globally. The case underscores the challenges whistleblowers
face in bringing attention to unethical practices without fearing retaliation.11
In the Unite d States, a signific ant 2023 c ase in volved a whistleb lower under the F alse Claims Act. The
individual, a doctor, ac cused a healthc are company of enab ling Medicare fraud. The c ase reache d the U.S.
Supreme Court, which ruled the Department of Justice could dismiss such lawsuits even if initially allowed to
proceed. This ruling reflects the complex interplay between whistleblower rights and government oversight in
ensuring actionable claims move forward without undue burden.12
These examples highlight ho w whistleblowing plays a c ritical role in e xposing corporate and institutional
malpractice, as well as the legal and systemic barriers faced in both Canada and the U.S.
Media Attributions
“Compare, Comparison, Options image” by Tumisu, used under the Pixabay license.
“Selective Focus Photography of Woman Using Whistle” by Luis Quintero, used under the Pixabay license.
10. U.S. Department of Labour. (2023, June 28). The US Depa rtment of La bour settled a whist leblower case ag ainst Delaware salvage yard, which
wrongly terminated an employee for reporting safety concerns.
11. Center for Free Expression. (2023, March 1). European court decision highlights Canada’s third-world status on whistleblower protection.
12. Pearlman, S. (2023, December 19). Top 10 whistleblowing and retaliation events of 2023. Proskauer.
230 | 5.6: IDENTIFYING ETHICAL ISSUES, LAPSES, AND DILEMMAS

[Page 263]
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE
WORKPLACE
When organizations are ethic al and practic e CSR, c onsumer and emp loyee rights will be c onsidered and
handled with integrity and ethics. For employees, health and safety, privacy, wages, and benefits, along with the
right not to be harassed or discriminated against, are all-important ethical considerations.
A 2018 surv ey found that 38% of emp loyees c onsider “ethical standards ” to be the first or se cond-most
important workplace attribute. 1
People spend much of their lives at work. An ethical workplace is key because
it allows employees to feel a sense of purpose and integrity on the job.
Create an Ethical Work Environment
For a business to be c onsidered an ethic al organization, it must demonstrate integrity , transp arency, and
accountability in all aspects of its operations. Creating an ethic al business environment involves adherence to
laws and regulations, strong corporate governance, and proactive efforts to ensure the well-being of employees,
customers, and the c ommunity. For example, a f ew of the c ompanies that do this w ell include those liste d
on the 2024 “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list, which, to name a f ew, include HP Inc., Jo hnson & Johnson,
PepsiCo Inc., Ford Motor Company, and The Hershey Company.2
Key factors in creating an ethical business environment include: 3
• Strong leadership and ethical governance. Effective ethical practices start at the top. Establish a
comprehensive code of ethics that clearly defines acceptable behaviour and guides decision-making in
areas such as anti-corruption, diversity, privacy, and fairness. A dedicated board of directors should
oversee accountability and steer ethical strategies. Transparency is crucial—regularly share financial,
operational, and social responsibility information to build stakeholder trust. Leading Canadian
companies like TELUS and RBC exemplify this by publishing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
and Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) reports that showcase their ethical commitments.
1. Heinig, I. (2024, December 16). Employee happiness: What do employees value most in their job? Clutch.
2. 3BLMedia. (2024). 100 Best Corporate Citizens 2024.
3. Purertos, E. (2025, March 18). What are ethical business practices and why are they important? Sustainable Business Toolkit.
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE | 231

[Page 264]
• Compliance with laws and standards. Ensure compliance with applicable regulations, including the
Competition Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (CFPOA), the Canadian Human
Rights Act, and the Occupational Health and Safety Regulations. For businesses operating
internationally, compliance with international standards like ISO 26000 (Social Responsibility) or the
UN Global Compact further strengthens ethical credibility. For example, Bombardier’s governance
policies and Code of Ethics help the company maintain high standards of corporate governance. 4
• Ethical workplace practices. Safeguard employee rights and foster a workplace that values diversity and
inclusion. Ensure a safe environment and encourage employees to report unethical conduct without fear
of retaliation. Shopify, for example, champions inclusivity and diversity through programs like
“Diversity and Belonging.” 5
• Commitment to social responsibility. Support community development through volunteering,
donations, and partnerships. Prioritize environmental sustainability by reducing carbon emissions,
managing waste responsibly, and investing in eco-friendly initiatives. Loblaw’s efforts to combat food
waste and reduce plastic use are strong examples of corporate sustainability.
• Proactive risk management. Provide ongoing training for employees on ethical decision-making and
compliance requirements. Implement clear social media and data privacy policies. Conduct internal
audits to ensure adherence to policies. Actively engage with stakeholders to understand and address their
concerns.
By focusing on these elements, businesses can build a reputation as ethical organizations while ensuring longterm success and trust from stakeholders.
Sexual Harassment
Sexual harassment occurs when an employee makes “unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours,
and other v erbal or p hysical c onduct of a se xual nature” to another emp loyee. It’s also c onsidered se xual
harassment when “submission to or reje ction of this c onduct e xplicitly or imp licitly affects an individual ’s
employment, unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work performance or creates an intimidating, hostile
or offensive work environment.” In Canada, the legal framew ork for addressing se xual harassment includes
4. Bombardier. (n.d.). Government relations & advocacy.
5. Motley Fool. (2021, May 25). Shopify’s Shavonne Hasfal-McIntosh talks diversity and belonging.
232 | 5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 265]
protections under the Canadian Human Rights Act (CHRA), provincial human rights codes, and the Canada
Labour Code for federally regulated workplaces.67
Sexual harassment rockete d to the top of news reports and social me dia when, on October 5, 2017, The
New York Times bro ke the story of Harv ey Weinstein’s de cades of harassment in Ho llywood. In M arch
of 2018, CBC News c ollated the allegations of se xual harassment against prominent Canadians . The list,
including only those allegations reported by CBC, highlights the prevalence of this issue.
The Go vernment of Canada reporte d that in 2020, one in f our w omen and one in six men reporte d
having e xperienced inappropriate se xualized beha viours at w ork in the previous y ear.8
Indigenous w omen
and members of the LGB TQ+ community are disproportionately affected, with much higher likelihoods of
experiencing sexual violence.9
Federally regulated sectors such as transportation, banking, and communication
account f or a signific ant proportion of harassment incidents. In 2022, 31% of reporte d se xual harassment
occurrences were from the road transportation sector, 17% from air transportation, and 15% from banking.10
To prev ent se xual harassment—or at least minimize its likelihood—a c ompany should adopt a f ormal
anti-harassment policy describing prohibited conduct, asserting its obje ctions to the beha viour, and detailing
penalties f or vio lating the po licy. Emp loyers also ha ve an ob ligation to in vestigate harassment c omplaints.
Failure to enforce anti-harassment policies can be very costly.
Workforce Diversity and Inclusive Workplaces
In addition to c omplying with equal employment opportunity laws, many companies make special efforts to
create an inclusive workforce by recruiting employees who are underrepresented in the workforce according
to se x, rac e, or some other characteristic. In helping to build more inclusiv e w orkforces, such initiativ es
contribute to competitive advantage for two reasons:
• People from diverse backgrounds bring new talents and fresh perspectives to an organization, typically
enhancing creativity in the development of new products.
• By more accurately reflecting the demographics of the marketplace, a diverse workforce improves a
6. Employment and Social Development Canada. (2023). Harassment and sexual violence in the workplace. Government of Canada.
7. Employment and Social Development Canada. (2023). Workplace harassment and violence prevention regulations—What we heard.
8. Statistics Canada. (2021). In 2020, one in four women and one in six men reported having experienced inappropriate sexualized behaviours at work in
the previous year. The Daily.
9. Women and Gender Equality Canada (2024). Sexual violence: It’s not just “how things are.” Government of Canada.
10. Employment and Social Dev elopment Canada. (2024). 2022 annual report —Taking action against harassment and violence in workplaces under
Canadian federal jurisdiction. Government of Canada.
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE | 233

[Page 266]
company’s ability to serve an ethnically diverse population.
The Tylenol Crisis
On September 30, 1982, twelve-year-old Mary Kellerman of Chicago died after her parents gave her
Extra-Strength Tylenol. That same morning, twenty-seven-year-old Adam Janus, also of Chicago,
died after taking Tylenol for minor chest pain. That night, when family members came to console
his parents, Adam’s brother and his wife took Tylenol from the same bottle and died within fortyeight hours. Over the next two weeks, four more people in Chicago died after taking Tylenol. The
actual connection between Tylenol and the series of deaths wasn’t made until an off-duty fireman
realized from news reports that every victim had taken Tylenol. As consumers panicked, the
Johnson & Johnson (J&J) company pulled Tylenol off Chicago-area retail shelves. Researchers
discovered Tylenol capsules containing large amounts of deadly cyanide. Because the poisoned
bottles came from batches originating at different J&J plants, investigators determined that the
tampering had occurred after the product had been shipped.11
So, J&J wasn’t at fault. However, CEO James Burke was still faced with an extremely serious
dilemma: Was it possible to respond to the tampering cases without destroying the reputation of a
highly profitable brand?
Burke had two options:
1. He could recall only the lots of Extra-Strength Tylenol that were found to be tainted with
cyanide. In 1991, Perrier executives recalled only tainted products when they discovered that
cases of their bottled water had been poisoned with benzine. This option favoured J&J
financially but possibly put more people at risk.
2. Burke could order a nationwide recall of all bottles of Extra-Strength Tylenol. This option
would reverse the priority of the stakeholders, putting the safety of the public above
stakeholders’ financial interests.
11. Kaplan, T. (1998). The Tylenol crisis: How effective public relations saved Johnson & Johnson. The Pennsylvania State University.
234 | 5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 267]
In 1982, cyanide-laced Tylenol capsules killed seven
people, triggering a nationwide scare and
transforming drug packaging safety standards
forever.
Burke opted to recall all 31 million bottles of
Extra-Strength Tylenol on the market. The cost
to J&J was $100 million, but public reaction was
quite positive. Less than six weeks after the
crisis began, Tylenol capsules were reintroduced
in new tamper-resistant bottles, and by
responding quickly and appropriately, J&J was
eventually able to restore the Tylenol brand to
its previous market position. When Burke was
applauded for moral courage, he replied that
he’d simply adhered to the long-standing J&J
credo that put the interests of customers above
those of other stakeholders. His only regret was
that the perpetrator was never caught.12
If you’re wondering what your thought process should be if you’re confronted with an ethical
dilemma, you might wish to remember the mental steps listed here, which happen to be the steps
that James Burke took in addressing the Tylenol crisis:
• Define the problem: How to respond to the tampering case without destroying the
reputation of the Tylenol brand.
• Identify feasible options: (1) Recall only the lots of Tylenol that were found to be tainted,
or (2) order a nationwide recall of all bottles of Extra-Strength Tylenol.
• Assess the effect of each option on stakeholders: Option 1 (recalling only the tainted
lots of Tylenol) is cheaper but puts more people at risk. Option 2 (recalling all bottles of ExtraStrength Tylenol) puts the safety of the public above stakeholders’ financial interests.
• Establish criteria for determining the most appropriate action: Adhere to the J&J
credo, which puts the interests of customers above those of other stakeholders.
• Select the best option based on the established criteria: In 1982, Option 2 was selected,
and a nationwide recall of all bottles of Extra-Strength Tylenol was conducted.
12. Weber, Y. (1999, June 13). The CEO saves the company’s reputation and products.
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE | 235

[Page 268]
The Individual Approach to Ethics
How can you make sure that y ou do the right thing in the business w orld? How should you respond to the
kinds of challenges that you’ll be facing? Because your actions in the business world will be strongly influenced
by your moral character, let’s begin b y assessing y our current moral c ondition. Which of the f ollowing best
applies to you (select one)?
• I’m always ethical.
• I’m mostly ethical.
• I’m somewhat ethical.
• I’m seldom ethical.
• I’m never ethical.
Now that y ou’ve placed yourself in one of these c ategories, here are some general observ ations. Few people
put themselves below the se cond category. Most of us are ethic al most of the time, and most pe ople assign
themselves to category number two— “I’m mostly ethical.” Why don’t more people claim that they’re always
ethical?
Apparently, most people realize that being ethical all the time takes a great deal of moral energy. If you placed
yourself in c ategory number tw o, ask y ourself this question: Ho w can I change m y behaviour so that I c an
move up a notch? The answer to this question may be simple. Just ask yourself an easier question: How would
I like to be treated in a given situation?13
Unfortunately, practicing this p hilosophy might be easier in y our personal life than in the business w orld.
Ethical challenges arise in business be cause companies, especially large ones, ha ve multiple stakeholders who
sometimes make c ompeting demands. M aking decisions that affect multiple stakeholders isn’t eas y even for
seasoned managers, and for new entrants to the business w orld, the task can be extremely daunting. You can,
however, get a head start in learning ho w to make ethic al decisions by looking at two types of challenges that
you’ll encounter in the business world: ethical dilemmas and ethical decisions.
13. Maxwell, J. C. (2003). There’s no such thing as “Business Ethics”: There’s only one rule for making decisions. New York: Warner Books.
236 | 5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 269]
Maintain Personal Honesty and Integrity
To maintain your own honesty and integrity in the workplace, do the following:
• Follow your own code of personal conduct; act according to your own convictions rather
than doing what’s convenient (or profitable) at the time.
• While at work, focus on your job, not on non-work-related activities, such as emails and
personal phone calls.
• Don’t appropriate office supplies, products, or other company resources for your own use.
• Be honest with customers, management, coworkers, competitors, and the public.
• Remember that it’s the small, seemingly trivial, day-to-day activities and gestures that build
your character.
Make Ethical Decisions
Ask yourself the following five questions as a test to help you improve your chances of making ethical decisions.
If you answer yes to any of them, then you probably should not do it.
• Is the action illegal?
• Is it unfair to some stakeholders? (Also, if it were happening to you, then would it be unfair?)
• If I do it, will I feel bad about it?
• Will I be ashamed to tell my family, friends, coworkers, or boss?
• Will I be embarrassed if my action is written up in the newspaper?
Some ethical problems are fairly straightforward. Others, unfortunately, are more complicated, but it will help
to think of our fiv e-question test as a set of signals that will w arn you that you’re facing a particularly tough
decision— that y ou should think c arefully about it and perhaps c onsult someone else. The situation is like
approaching a traffic light. Re d and gre en lights are eas y; you know what they mean and e xactly what to do .
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE | 237

[Page 270]
Yellow lights are trickier. Before you decide which pedal to hit, try posing the five questions. If you get a single
yes, you’ll almost surely be better off hitting the brakes.14
Refuse to Rationalize
Despite all the good arguments in f avour of doing the right thing, wh y do man y reasonab le pe ople act
unethically (at least at times)? Why do good people make bad choices? According to one study, there are four
common rationalizations (excuses) for justifying misconduct:15
• My behaviour isn’t really illegal or immoral. Rationalizers try to convince themselves that an action is
okay if it isn’t downright illegal or blatantly immoral. They tend to operate in a gray area where there’s
no clear evidence that the action is wrong.
• My action is in everyone’s best interests. Some rationalizers tell themselves: “I know I lied to make the
deal, but it’ll bring in a lot of business and pay a lot of bills.” They convince themselves that they’re
expected to act in a certain way.
• No one will find out what I’ve done. Here, the self-questioning comes down to “If I didn’t get caught,
did I really do it?” The answer is yes. There’s a simple way to avoid succumbing to this rationalization:
always act as if you’re being watched.
• The company will condone my action and protect me. This justification rests on a fallacy.
If you find yourself having to rationalize a decision, it’s probably a bad one.

14. Online Ethics Center f or Engineering and Scienc e. (2004). Advice from t he Texas Instruments Ethics Office: Article number 280: What do you do
when the light turns yellow? Onlineethics.org.
15. Gellerman, S. W. (1986, July). Why “good” managers make bad ethical choices. Harvard Business Review on Corporate Ethics.
238 | 5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 271]
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Katarina Milicic
Katarina Milicic
As a Sustainability Proje cts and Reporting Offic er at a post-se condary institution, Katarina Milicic f ocuses
on adv ancing sustainability through operational impro vements, engagement programs, and ac ademics.
Throughout her c areer, she has le d initiativ es f ocused on sustainab le dev elopment, climate action, and
corporate responsibility, always aiming to integrate sustainability into the core of how businesses operate.
In her current ro le, Katarina w orks closely with staff, leadership , and f aculty to find c ommonalities to driv e
real change across campuses. She is responsible for research, reporting, and project implementation on various
areas of sustainability, including w aste, energy, transportation, and f ood. In the reporting aspe ct of her ro le,
she tracks progress against v arious strategies and go als, such as w aste diversion and gre enhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, to see where environmental impact and cost can be reduced while enhancing social well-being. Her
day-to-day work is grounded in the f act that sustainability pro vides an opportunity to build a more resilient,
self-sufficient, and equitable future for the campus community and beyond.
“Sustainability is a collective effort, and it begins with transparency, commitment, and collaboration. With
over a decade of experience in sustainability, I’ve seen how embedding principles of sustainability and the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) can have a positive economic, social, and environmental impact on
organizations. I believe that integrating corporate social responsibility into an organization’s strategy ensures
future resiliency but also enriches the health and well-being of all stakeholders.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Katarina Milicic. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
Media Attributions
“Tablet, Medication, Pills image” by jhenning, used under the Pixabay license.
5.7: ENCOURAGING ETHICS IN THE WORKPLACE | 239

[Page 272]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is a business model by which companies make a
concerted effort to operate in ways that enhance rather than degrade society and the
environment.
2. The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals that
aim to achieve peace and prosperity for people and the planet.
3. Companies can be “socially responsible” in considering the claims of various stakeholders:
Owners and Investors, Managers, Employees, Customers and Communities.
4. Managers have what is known as a fiduciary responsibility to owners: they’re responsible
for safeguarding the company’s assets and handling its funds in a trustworthy manner.
5. Customer rights include the right to safe products, the right to be informed about a
product, the right to choose what to buy, and the right to be heard.
6. Carroll’s Pyramid is a well-respected resource for situating corporate social responsibility. In
this model, the focus is on managers—not owners—as the principals involved in the
company’s relationships with its stakeholders.
7. Economic corporate responsibility refers to the practice of making financial decisions
based on a commitment to doing good.
8. Businesses have legal responsibilities to comply with laws and regulations at the local,
national, and international levels. Business law refers to rules, statutes, codes, and
regulations established to provide a legal framework within which business may be
conducted. Legal compliance refers to conducting a business within the boundaries
of all the legal regulations of that industry.
9. The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms is a binding legal document that protects
the basic human rights of all Canadians, such as fundamental freedoms, democratic rights,
mobility rights, legal rights, equality rights, and language rights.
10. The Canadian Human Rights Act extends the law to ensure equal opportunity to
240 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 273]
individuals who may be victims of discriminatory practices based on a set of prohibited
grounds (e.g., gender, disability, or religion).
11. Employment-related legislation covers the following subjects: employment standards,
human rights, federal and provincial privacy, occupational health and safety, workers’
compensation, and labour regulations legislation. Employers must obey laws governing
minimum wage and overtime pay. A minimum wage is set by the provincial government.
12. In Canada, workplace health and safety are governed by several key pieces of legislation
designed to protect workers and ensure safe working environments: Canada Labour Code,
provincial and territorial health and safety legislation, occupational health and safety
regulations, and workers’ compensation legislation.
13. The Employment Equity Act states that no person shall be denied employment
opportunities or benefits for reasons unrelated to ability. It seeks to improve the employment
conditions experienced by women, Indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities, and visible
minorities.
14. Many large corporations support various charities, an activity called
philanthropy. Philanthropic responsibility is a business’s commitment to improving
society through charitable activities, community support, and social initiatives. It’s a key
aspect of corporate social responsibility (CSR), and it emphasizes that businesses should not
only focus on profit-making.
15. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is typically measured through a combination of
quantitative and qualitative metrics that assess how well a company is meeting its social,
environmental, and ethical obligations. Different organizations use various frameworks,
tools, and reporting standards to evaluate CSR performance.
16. Greenwashing refers to the practice of misleading consumers or stakeholders into believing
that a company, product, or initiative is more environmentally friendly or sustainable than it
actually is.
17. ESG stands for Environmental, Social, and Governance. It refers to a set of standards used by
businesses to evaluate and address their impact on the world, beyond just financial
performance.
18. The FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies
demonstrating specific Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices.
19. Ethics is the philosophical discipline concerned with what is morally good and bad, and
morally right and wrong. Businesses have ethical responsibilities to ensure fair practices
and treat customers, employees, and stakeholders with respect.
20. Ethical issues are the difficult social questions that involve some level of controversy over
CHAPTER REVIEW | 241

[Page 274]
what is the right thing to do.
21. An ethical lapse is a mistake or error in judgment that produces a harmful outcome. It is a
failure to follow proper ethical principles.
22. Ethical dilemmas are situations in which it is difficult for an individual to make decisions
either because the right course of action is unclear or carries some potential negative
consequences for the person or people involved.
23. An ethical lapse in honesty and integrity occurs when an individual, organization, or
company fails to uphold fundamental ethical principles, such as truthfulness, transparency,
and adherence to moral standards. It typically involves actions or decisions that prioritize
self-interest, convenience, or profit over fairness, accountability, and ethical responsibility.
24. Conflicts of interest occur when individuals must choose between taking actions that
promote their personal interests over the interests of others or taking actions that don’t.
25. Conflicts of loyalty can arise when individuals in leadership positions prioritize personal
gains over their professional obligations, leading to ethical and legal repercussions.
26. A gift intended to maintain goodwill or celebrate a partnership might be ethical if it’s modest
and transparent. However, lavish or undisclosed gifts designed to influence decision-making
cross the line into bribery.
27. A whistleblower is someone who reports waste, fraud, abuse, corruption, or dangers to
public health and safety to someone who is in a position to rectify the wrongdoing.
28. Creating an ethical business environment involves adherence to laws and regulations,
strong corporate governance, and proactive efforts to ensure the well-being of employees,
customers, and the community.
29. Sexual harassment occurs when an employee makes “unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favours, and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature” to
another employee.
30. In addition to complying with equal employment opportunity laws, many companies make
special efforts to create an inclusive workforce by recruiting employees who are
underrepresented in the workforce according to sex, race, or some other characteristic.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 5: Ethics and Social Responsibility [PDF].
242 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 275]
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Use the Internet to research a company’s
corporate social responsibility efforts (e.g., Leons, Home Depot, Starbucks, PepsiCo, or other).
What action does the company take toward CSR? What is the reaction of the stakeholders
to the company’s CSR strategy? Share your findings with the class and/or the professor.
2. Ethical Crisis. Use the Internet to search for an example of a business having an ethical
crisis (similar to the Tylenol crisis discussed in the chapter). What did you find? Did anyone
get hurt? What was the court ruling? Was this fair in your opinion? How could this have
been avoided? Discuss with a partner, the class, and/or the professor.
3. Greenwashing. Use the Internet to research the characteristics of greenwashing. Provide an
example of a company that has been found greenwashing. Why does greenwashing
happen? How can consumers identify greenwashing? Discuss with the class and/or the
professor.
4. CSR Rankings. Use the Internet to locate a ratings and rankings website that ranks
companies based on their CSR efforts. Which companies are ranked best and worst? Why?
Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
5. Pondering Ethics. Assume you are a manager and, as the manager, you feel you have the
right to take home office supplies (e.g., printer paper, pens, binders, coffee packs, etc.).
Recently you noticed that your employees have begun doing the same. What should you do?
Discuss with a partner, the class and/or your professor.
6. Personal and Business Ethics. Where are the boundaries between personal ethics and
business ethics? Are there rules to indicate where one begins and the other ends? Should
there be? Discuss with a partner, the class and/or the professor.
7. Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Use the Internet to research what the Charter includes.
How has this affected you personally? Discuss with the class and/or professor.
8. Codes. What is your college or university’s code of conduct, academic honesty code, or other
ethical behaviour code? What are the expectations of behaviour outlined in these codes?
How are they enforced? Do you think these codes are working? Why or why not? Discuss
with a partner, the class and/or the professor.
9. Stakeholder Responsibilities. Non-profit organizations, such as your college or university,
CHAPTER REVIEW | 243

[Page 276]
have social responsibilities to their stakeholders. Identify the stakeholders at your school and
for each category of stakeholder indicate the ways your school is socially responsible to that
group. Discuss with a partner, the class and/or professor.
10. Write a Personal Code of Ethics. Write a personal code of ethics. What will you put into
it? What’s important to you? Identify your core values, principles, and guidelines for how you
want to live and make decisions. Visit Indeed’s Career Guide for examples if you need a little
help getting started. Discuss with a partner, the class and/or professor.
11. Corporate Ethics. Visit two of the following company websites: Boeing, Apple Inc., Toyota
Motor Corporation. Compare and contrast the companies’ code of ethics, mission, vision,
values and code of conduct. Based solely on each company’s ethical conduct, mission, and
values, which company would you rather work for? Why? Discuss with a partner, the class
and/or professor.
12. Volunteerism. You don’t have to wait until you graduate to start demonstrating your social
responsibility. Volunteering in your community or at your school is a great way to gain
experience, make contacts, and do something good. Employers like to hire people who have
given back to their communities. Visit Volunteer Canada and find an organization in your area
looking for volunteers. What opportunities are there for volunteers? What are the current
trending issues? What is the Canadian Code of Volunteer Involvement? List a couple
organizations in your province or territory that have adopted the code. Share your findings
with the class and/or the professor.
13. Company Research. Choose a Global 500 company from Fortune magazine’s annual
ranking for last year (or your professor might assign a specific company). You will submit a
short report (formatted as instructed) to your professor with answers to the following
questions:
◦ Does the company’s vision or values statement discuss the environment or treatment
of people? Provide details.
◦ Does the company have a code of ethics? If so, what is it? If not, does the mission
statement or vision statement mention ethical values? Provide details.
◦ Has the company been in a news scandal? If so, what was it about? Provide details.
◦ Has the company had an ethical lapse? If so, what was it about? How did the company
recover? Provide details.
◦ Does the company engage in philanthropy? Provide details.
◦ Is there anything in the news that contradicts the image the company is trying to
portray?
244 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 277]
Self-Check Exercise: Ethics, Law, and Social Responsibility
Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=190#h5p-10
Additional Resources
• What is the Triple Bottom Line? YouTube Video.
• Ethics Defined. YouTube Video.
• Prominent Canadian Whistleblowers
• A Timeline of U.S. Whistleblowing
• Canada’s Best Diversity Employers
• America’s Best Employers for Diversity
• The World’s Biggest Accounting Fraud Scandals
• What is Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)? HBS Online, YouTube Video.
• What are the Types of Corporate Social Responsibility? How to Choose the Right One.
YouTube Video.
• Corporate Social Responsibility Explained: Why it’s Important for your Business. YouTube
Video.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 245

[Page 278]
• How to Develop a Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy: Solving Business Problems.
YouTube Video.
• Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): Why They Matter for Business Today. YouTube
Video.
• Corporate Social Responsibility vs Corporate Philanthropy: What’s the Difference? YouTube
Video.
• How to Measure Your CSR Program’s Performance and Impact. YouTube Video.
• Corporate Social Responsibility and Diversity in the Modern Workplace: Building Better
Businesses. YouTube Video.
• Get Better Employee Engagement by Following These 8 Simple Steps: Best Practices for
2022 and Beyond. YouTube Video.
• Top 7 Benefits of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for Any Business. YouTube Video.
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
246 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 279]
CHAPTER 6: ENTREPRENEURSHIP
AND BUSINESS STRUCTURE
CHAPTER 6: ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 247

[Page 280]
248 | CHAPTER 6: ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 281]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter will c over different types of entrepreneurs, business structures, p lanning tools, and resources to
help new businesses.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Discuss why entrepreneurship is important to society.
2. Summarize the factors contributing to the success or failure of small businesses.
3. List four characteristics or traits an entrepreneur should have.
4. Distinguish between a social entrepreneur, a necessity entrepreneur, and an opportunity
entrepreneur.
5. Outline the steps involved in creating a new business.
6. Compare the four types of business structure: sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
and co-operative.
7. Explain what a business plan is and how it is used.
8. Express how the business model canvas is used.
9. List the types of support an entrepreneur might obtain for starting a new business.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 249

[Page 282]
6.1: THE IMPORTANCE OF
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Entrepreneurship is important f or e conomic gro wth. New c ompanies c reate emp loyment, c ontribute to
a nation’s GDP , and bring new and inno vative products and servic es to c onsumers. Some small business
founders, such as Henry F ord and Thomas E dison, have even gained places in history. Others, including Bill
Gates (Microsoft), Mike Lazaridis (Research in M otion), Steve Jobs (App le Computer), and Larry P age and
Sergey Brin (Google), have changed the way global business is done today.
Entrepreneurship plays a vital role in the growth and development of economies and societies. Here are five
key points highlighting its importance:
• Economic growth and job creation. Entrepreneurs are critical drivers of economic development. By
establishing new businesses, they contribute to GDP growth and generate employment opportunities.
Startups often create jobs directly within their operations and indirectly by fostering demand for
suppliers, service providers, and other industries. This dynamism boosts local economies and reduces
unemployment. For example, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are significant contributors to
job creation in both developed and developing economies.
• Innovation and technological advancement. Entrepreneurs often introduce groundbreaking ideas,
products, and services that improve lives and solve societal problems. By challenging traditional
methods, they encourage innovation and technological progress. Many technological breakthroughs,
such as smartphones and e-commerce, originated from entrepreneurial ventures. These innovations not
only benefit consumers but also drive competition, compelling existing businesses to adapt and improve,
further advancing technology and efficiency.
• Improved standard of living. Entrepreneurship leads to the development of goods and services that
address consumer needs more effectively. By making products more accessible, affordable, or efficient,
entrepreneurs enhance the standard of living. For instance, affordable transportation services like Uber
or low-cost consumer goods offered by startups improve daily life for millions. Moreover, as businesses
grow and incomes rise, employees and communities benefit from better infrastructure, education, and
healthcare.
• Economic diversification and resilience. Entrepreneurship encourages diversification by fostering
businesses in various industries, including emerging sectors like renewable energy, biotechnology, and
digital technologies. A diversified economy is less reliant on a single industry, making it more resilient to
economic shocks. For example, in resource-dependent countries, encouraging entrepreneurship in nonresource sectors helps reduce vulnerability to fluctuations in global commodity prices.
250 | 6.1: THE IMPORTANCE OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP

[Page 283]
An entrepreneur pitching their business
concept.
• Empowerment and social change. Entrepreneurship empowers individuals, particularly marginalized
groups, by providing opportunities to take control of their economic futures. Women-led businesses, for
instance, are transforming communities by creating jobs and addressing gender inequalities.
Additionally, social entrepreneurs tackle pressing societal issues like poverty, education, and climate
change, driving positive change through sustainable and innovative solutions. Initiatives like
microfinance have empowered countless individuals to start businesses and improve their lives.
Entrepreneurship is not just about starting businesses; it is a
catalyst f or e conomic prosperity , inno vation, and societal
transformation. By fostering creativity, empowering individuals,
and addressing pressing glob al challenges, entrepreneurship
builds a more sustainab le and e quitable future. Go vernments
and institutions must enc ourage and support entrepreneurial
endeavours to unlock their full potential.
“A society be comes greater if the emp loyment b ase is large
and diversified. It brings about changes in society and promotes
facilities like higher expenditure on education, better sanitation,
fewer slums, and a higher level of homeownership.”1
“Entrepreneurship inc reases inc ome lev els, theref ore
improving standards of living. Entrepreneurs identify
challenges in the liv es of customers and pro vide appropriate
business solutions. Additionally, they hire new emp loyees who
receive remuneration, and this inc ome gets circulate d in the
economy. All of the spending and salaries generate inc remental
wealth, therefore improving standards of living.”2
“Entrepreneurs play a key ro le in inc reasing the standard of
living in a c ommunity. They do this not just b y creating jobs,
but also b y dev eloping and adopting inno vations that lead to impro vements in the quality of lif e of their
employees, customers, and other stakeho lders in the c ommunity. New and impro ved products, servic es or
technology from entrepreneurs enab le new markets to be dev eloped and new w ealth to be c reated.
1. ByJus. (n.d.). Entrepreneurship—Types of entrepreneurship.
2. Harappa. (2021, April 19). What is entrepreneurship? Meaning, features, need & examples.
6.1: THE IMPORTANCE OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP | 251

[Page 284]
Additionally, increased employment and higher earnings c ontribute to better national inc ome in the form of
higher tax revenue and higher government spending.”3
Media Attributions
“Woman in Gray Coat Holding White Printer Paper” by RDNE Stock project, used under the Pexels license.
3. FastAdvices. (2020, July 10). How does entrepreneu rship affect t he sta ndard of livi ng? Retrieved from https:// yourfastadvices.com/howentrepreneurship-affects-the-standard-of-living/
252 | 6.1: THE IMPORTANCE OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP

[Page 285]
6.2: REASONS SMALL BUSINESSES
SUCCEED OR FAIL
The success or f ailure of small businesses is influenc ed by a v ariety of f actors. Understanding these c an help
entrepreneurs make informed decisions and improve their chances of success.
Small Business Success
Success hinges on strategic p lanning, adaptability, customer f ocus, and sound financial management. Small
businesses must remain pro active, monitor perf ormance, and adapt to challenges to thriv e in a c ompetitive
environment.
Here are some of the reasons small businesses are successful:
• Clear vision and strong planning. A well-defined business plan helps set realistic goals, understand
market needs, and devise a growth strategy. Example: A bakery with a unique product line tailored to
health-conscious consumers can attract a loyal customer base.
• Financial management. Successful businesses monitor expenses, optimize pricing, and secure adequate
funding to manage operations and growth. Example: A café that maintains detailed cash flow records
and controls costs can reinvest profits into expansion.
• Understanding the market and customers. Businesses that focus on customer needs, preferences, and
feedback often outperform competitors. Example: An e-commerce store offering personalized shopping
experiences can build customer loyalty.
• Adaptability and innovation. Thriving businesses adapt to changing trends and innovate to stay
competitive. Example: A clothing retailer that shifts to online sales during a pandemic ensures continued
revenue.
• Effective leadership and teamwork. Skilled leaders who motivate teams, make informed decisions, and
delegate effectively can drive success. Example: A software startup with a strong leadership team and
skilled employees can quickly scale operations.
Small Business Failure
There are sev eral factors that c ontribute to the f ailure of small businesses, including insufficient c ash flow,
6.2: REASONS SMALL BUSINESSES SUCCEED OR FAIL | 253

[Page 286]
pricing issues, and lack of f ocus. However, the main reason is the lack of research and off ering a product or a
service for which there is no market.1
Failures often stem from internal f actors like poor p lanning, financial mismanagement, or lack of
experience, as well as external factors such as economic shifts or market saturation.
Here are some of the reasons small businesses fail:
• Lack of planning. Poor business planning, unclear goals, or a lack of market research often lead to failure.
Without a solid business plan, owners struggle to define their target audience, competitive strategy, or
financial projections. Example: A restaurant opening without researching local demand or competition
may struggle to attract customers.
• Inadequate funding. Insufficient startup capital or poor financial management can cripple a business.
Many small businesses underestimate costs or fail to secure necessary funding to sustain operations.
Example: A retail store running out of cash before building a stable customer base will likely close.
• Poor marketing and customer understanding. Businesses that fail to connect with their target audience or
market their products effectively often see limited growth. Example: A business using outdated
marketing strategies may not reach modern, digital-savvy customers.
• Ineffective management. Inexperience, poor decision-making, or inability to delegate can lead to
operational inefficiencies. Example: A business owner handling everything alone may burn out and
neglect crucial aspects of the business.
• Economic or market challenges. External factors like economic downturns, increased competition, or
changing market trends can negatively impact businesses. Example: A travel agency may struggle during
a recession or global health crisis, such as COVID-19.
Small Business Statistics
While there are different ways to define a small c ompany in Canada, the most straightf orward way is to loo k
at the number of emp loyees. Companies with f ewer than 100 staff members are c onsidered small businesses
in Canada. As more c onsumers are shopping online, small c ompanies often do not ha ve the w orkforce or
the kno w-how to c reate an online presenc e, nor pricing, that c ould c ompete with larger c ompanies. As a
result, many small Canadian companies are struggling, and they do not expect their sales to increase. Yet, small
1. Blair, N. (2024, De cember 31). Small business statistics in Canada. Retrieved May 27, 2025, from https://madeinca.ca/small-business-statisticscanada/
254 | 6.2: REASONS SMALL BUSINESSES SUCCEED OR FAIL

[Page 287]
businesses are the b ackbone of the Canadian e conomy, making a signific ant contribution to the Canadian
gross domestic product (GDP). They are also vital in keeping the employment numbers up in Canada.2
Below are some statistics about small businesses in Canada:3
• Each small business may only employ a few people, but combined, they are the biggest employers in
Canada.
• According to data from Statistics Canada, in 2021, 98.1% of all employer businesses in Canada were
small businesses.
• In 2021, they employed 63.8% of the Canadian workforce, which represents 10.3 million people.
Medium-sized local businesses employed 21.1% and large businesses 15.1%. These percentages represent
3.4 and 2.4 million people, respectively.
• Data on new small businesses show that 21.5% of small businesses close before the end of their first year.
About 50% of small businesses survive for five years, and about 33% get to celebrate ten years in business.
• About 42% of small businesses fail because they have not researched the market and are selling a service
or a product that customers are not interested in.
• About 29% of small companies have to close because they run out of money, and 67% of small business
owners are using personal funds to try to keep the business running, which is not a strategy that can be
applied in the long term. Other reasons that contribute to small business failures include not having the
right team (23%), being out-performed by their competition (19%), pricing issues (18%), ignoring the
customers’ needs (14%), lack of focus (13%), and failure to make necessary changes (7%).
• About 73.9% of Canadian companies have fewer than ten employees. 55.3% employ fewer than five
people, and 18.6% have between five and nine members of staff.
• Baby boomers are the biggest business-owning age group, owning 42% of Canadian companies. The
number of small businesses owned by millennials is growing, with 24% of all small companies owned by
a millennial in 2019.
• Small and medium-sized companies contribute over half of Canada’s GDP.
• About 58% of small business owners believe a work-life balance is crucial for long-term survival.
• According to Start Up Canada, there were about 3.5 million entrepreneurs and 901,794 small businesses
in Canada in October 2021.
2. Blair, N. (2024, De cember 31). Small business statistics in Canada. Retrieved May 27, 2025, from https://madeinca.ca/small-business-statisticscanada/
3. Blair, N. (2024, De cember 31). Small business statistics in Canada. Retrieved May 27, 2025, from https://madeinca.ca/small-business-statisticscanada/
6.2: REASONS SMALL BUSINESSES SUCCEED OR FAIL | 255

[Page 288]
6.3: ENTREPRENEURIAL TRAITS AND KEY
MOTIVATIONAL FACTORS
An entrepreneur is some one who starts, o wns and operates a business. It is difficult to generalize about
the kind of pe ople attracted to the idea of starting their o wn business be cause entrepreneurs are inc reasingly
diverse. An interesting portrait of Canadian entrepreneurs emerge d from a 2019 BDC surv ey of 1,025
Canadian business owners. Among the findings:1
• Twenty-eight percent were women, up from 11% 40 years ago.
• Newcomers to Canada were twice as likely to start a business as their Canadian-born counterparts.
• The number of Canadians under 35 who started a business increased by 80% between 2014 and 2018.
Key Traits
While entrepreneurs do re quire many skills and abilities, they ma y not ha ve all the skills they ne ed to run
a business suc cessfully. In these c ases, an entrepreneur might hire a c onsultant, a c ontract emp loyee, or a
full-time emp loyee to support the business tasks f or which the entrepreneur lacks skills or ma y not ha ve
the time to f ocus on. F or e xample, as an entrepreneur, if ac counting is y our w eakness, y ou might hire an
accountant, payroll service, or bookkeeper. If sales or marketing are not skills y ou have developed, you might
hire a salesperson or c ontract a marketing c ompany to help y ou build marketing c ampaigns. While hiring
consultants, services, or employees does cost money, you can rest assured that it is being done ac curately, and
the investment should pay off.
Some of the key traits found in entrepreneurs include the following.
• Passion. Work ethic and passion fuel each other. Passion drives the motivation to stay disciplined, while a
strong work ethic keeps progress steady. The reward is the priceless satisfaction entrepreneurs feel when
their hard work pays off. 2
• Risk tolerance. Taking risks helps businesses stand out, especially in crowded markets. Even when risks
1. BDC. (2022, October 4). How to become an entrepreneur.
2. Walker, B. (2020, May 11). Six personality traits of successful entrepreneurs. Forbes.
256 | 6.3: ENTREPRENEURIAL TRAITS AND KEY MOTIVATIONAL FACTORS

[Page 289]
don’t pay off, the lessons learned can guide future decisions. Bill Gates once said, “To win big, you
sometimes have to take big risks.” His boldest move—leaving Harvard to start Microsoft—was driven by
a vision of making personal computing accessible to everyone. At a time when computers were massive
and exclusive, Gates imagined a future with a computer on every desk and in every home. That bold risk
reshaped the world. 3
• Persistence. Successful entrepreneurs don’t fear failure—they learn from it. Mistakes and setbacks are
part of the journey, but persistence, curiosity, and a willingness to adapt are what drive progress. Growth
comes not from avoiding failure, but from using it to move forward.4
• Innovation. Innovation isn’t innate—it’s a mindset that can be developed. Many top startups succeed by
reimagining existing products to meet evolving market needs. In today’s competitive landscape,
creativity is essential. Entrepreneurs who challenge conventional solutions often uncover the ideas that
set their businesses apart.5
There are three characteristics of entrepreneurial activity:
• Innovation: Coming up with new ideas, pivoting and adapting when a consumer or economic
environment changes.
• Operating a business: You will need to understand the functional areas of business, how to analyze the
internal and external environments, make decisions, and more.
• Risk-taking: Entrepreneurs need to be able to deal with risk. There are no guarantees that the business
will be successful or remain successful. You will need to learn how to mitigate risks.
Motivational Factors
Some common motivational factors have been identified by many entrepreneurs. For instance, entrepreneurs
are often motiv ated by much more than money , and most start their business to be come their o wn boss. In
BDC’s survey, when aske d why they be came an entrepreneur, the most popular answ er, cited by 70%, w as
independence, autonomy, and fle xibility. About one in tw o mentioned passion or self-fulfillment, and one3. Alfred, L. (2020, May 5). 12 characteristics & personality traits great entrepreneurs share. Hubspot.
4. Miller, K. (2020, July 7). 10 characteristics of successful entrepreneurs. Business Insights.
5. Walker, B. (2020, May 11). Six personality traits of successful entrepreneurs. Forbes.
6.3: ENTREPRENEURIAL TRAITS AND KEY MOTIVATIONAL FACTORS | 257

[Page 290]
third cited financial reasons. 6
Refer to Figure 6.1 belo w to view surv ey results f or motivational factors that
influence entrepreneurial success.

Figure 6.1: Motivational factors influencing entrepreneurial success (2019) from How to Become an
Entrepreneur. [See image description.]
“The 2019 BDC survey of business owners sheds additional light on what makes Canadian entrepreneurs tick.
Three in four said they had to deal with financial inse curity, significant stress, and a lack of benefits. Y et, 90%
were professionally satisfied.”7
Media Attributions
“Figure 6.1: M otivational f actors influencing entrepreneurial suc cess (2019)” from How to Be come an
Entrepreneur, © Business Dev elopment Bank of Canada, is use d in this OER with permission from the
Business Development Bank of Canada.
6. BDC. (2022, October 4). How to become an entrepreneur.
7. BDC. (2022, October 4). How to become an entrepreneur.
258 | 6.3: ENTREPRENEURIAL TRAITS AND KEY MOTIVATIONAL FACTORS

[Page 291]
Image descriptions
Figure 6.1
A horizontal b ar chart of the diff erent f actors influencing entrepreneurs ’ suc cess, with c orresponding
percentages indicating the proportion of respondents who cite d that f actor. The f actors listed from top to
bottom are: “Independenc e, autonomy, flexibility” at 70%, “P assion or self-fulfillment” at 53%, “Financial
reasons” at 34%, “Interesting w ork and responsibilities ” at 31%, “P ositive c ontribution to society” at 20%,
“Opportunity to act on a great idea” at 19%, “Family” at 4%, and “No reason in particular” at 3%. A percentage
scale runs along the bottom from 0% to 100%. The following source is noted at the bottom of the chart: BDC,
Survey on the Factors Influencing Entrepreneurs’ Success (Montreal: BDC, May 2019). Base: All respondents
who provided an answer (n=877).
[back to figure]
6.3: ENTREPRENEURIAL TRAITS AND KEY MOTIVATIONAL FACTORS | 259

[Page 292]
6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS
There are man y types of entrepreneurs, and depending on which w ebsite y ou read, y ou ma y se e a list of
five to fifteen types of entrepreneurs. The type of entrepreneur y ou are depends on y our goals and personal
characteristics (e.g., skills, kno wledge, creativity, interests, pref erences, situation in lif e, drive, determination,
etc.).
The Indeed Editorial Team (2023) provides the following list of nine different types of entrepreneurship.1
• Small business entrepreneurship. People interested in this category are probably interested in making a
profit that supports their family and a modest lifestyle. They often run the business and work in it.
They hire local employees and family members. Local grocery stores, hairdressers, small restaurants,
small boutiques, consultants, plumbers, and accountants are a part of this category.
• Large company entrepreneurship. People in this category are often in a team of executives who know how
to sustain innovation. Small business entrepreneurship can turn into large company entrepreneurship
when the company grows quickly or when a large company acquires a small business. Microsoft, Google,
and Disney are examples of this category.
• Scalable startup entrepreneurship. People in this category look for things that are missing in the market
and create solutions for them. Many of these types of businesses start in Silicon Valley and are
technology-focused. They seek rapid expansion and big profit returns. Examples include Facebook,
Instagram, and Uber.
• Social entrepreneurship. People in this category want to solve social problems with their products and
services. Their main goal is to make the world a better place, and so they are not concerned with making
big profits.
• Innovative entrepreneurship. People in this category aim to change the way people live for the better.
Innovators tend to be very motivated and passionate people. They look for ways to make their products
and services stand out from other things on the market. People like Steve Jobs and Bill Gates are
examples of innovative entrepreneurs.
• Hustler entrepreneurship. People who are willing to work hard and put in constant effort are considered
hustler entrepreneurs. Their aspirations are what motivates them, and they are willing to do what it
takes to achieve their goals. They have drive and determination and do not give up easily.
• Imitator entrepreneurship. People in this category use other people’s business ideas but work to improve
1. Indeed Editorial Team. (2023, March 10). The nine different types of entrepreneurship (with examples). Indeed.
260 | 6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 293]
them. They seek to make certain products and services better and more profitable. They have a lot of
self-confidence and determination. They learn from others’ mistakes.
• Researcher entrepreneurship. People in this category like to do as much research as possible before
starting a business. They believe that with the right preparation and information, they have a higher
chance of being successful. They tend to rely on facts, data, and logic rather than their intuition.
• Buyer entrepreneurship. People in this category use their wealth to fuel their business ventures, usually
through purchasing well-established businesses that they think will be successful. Their goal is to grow
the businesses they acquire and expand their profits.
Social Entrepreneur
Some people start businesses in order to help society , people, and communities. A social entrepreneur does
not start a c ompany with their main go al being to make a profit. Instead, their go al is to make a positiv e
change in the w orld. Their go als often align with the United Nations Sustainab le Development Goals, and
their efforts may have a local, national, or global impact. Social entrepreneurs are driven by purpose—whether
it’s fighting poverty, tackling climate change, or ending homelessness. But passion alone isn’t enough. Building
a sustainable venture still demands focus, structure, and strategy to create lasting impact.2
Social entrepreneurs—whether f or-profit or non-profit—operate with a mission to driv e positive change.
Working under the b anner of social enterprise, they tackle issues like po verty, healthc are ac cess, w omen’s
empowerment, and community development. By reinvesting profits, securing grants, and mobilizing support,
they influence institutions and governments to address unmet needs and spark lasting social transformation.3
Mark Marsolais-Nahwegahbow (Ojibwe) —Social
Entrepreneur
“Entrepreneur Mark Marsolais-Nahwegahbow brought his background in Indigenous law, business,
2. Wirth, K. (2022, August 30). 12 Most Common Types of Entrepreneurs Explained. LivePlan.
3. Wallstreetmojo Team. (2021, August 19). Social entrepreneur. WallStreetMojo.
6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS | 261

[Page 294]
and education to the founding of the Birch Bark Coffee Company on Birch Island in the District of
Manitoulin Island. The company offers organic, fair trade, and small-producers-certified coffee. He
is bringing sustainable revenue and a more secure future to his community with a larger goal of
improving Indigenous lives across Canada. He has pledged, for instance, to devote a portion of
company profits to purchase certified water purifiers for those on every reserve without access to
clean drinking water. Through his example and speaking engagements, Mark seeks to inspire
young Indigenous people to respect tradition and, possibly through entrepreneurship of their own,
build a better future for themselves and their communities.”4
What Is Social Innovation?
Watch the YouTube video below, “What is Social Innovation? How do you actually DO it (and
change the world)?” to learn more about the steps involved in creating a social innovation. Amber
Melanie Smith provides a specific example of a social innovation related to food insecurity and
applies the design thinking methodology to step through the stages of identifying the problem,
empathizing, defining the problem, ideating, prototyping, and testing the solution.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=206#oembed-1
Transcript for “What is Social Innovation? How do you actually DO it (and change the world)?”
video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
4. Boyko, J. (2022, April 7). Notable Indigenous entrepreneurs in Canada. The Canadian Encyclopedia.
262 | 6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 295]
Source: Smith, M. A. (2022, June 19). What is social innovation? How do you actually DO it (and
change the world)? [Video]. YouTube.
Necessity Entrepreneur
A necessity entrepreneur is someone who starts a business b ased on a ne ed for income, out of ne cessity,
because they c annot find emp loyment, ha ve lost their job , ne ed to supp lement their inc ome, or re quire
flexibility to attend to other demands in their lives. Some necessity entrepreneurs find business ideas to pursue
after retirement or after being do wnsized. “A typical necessity entrepreneur is o ver 50 y ears of age, has be en
unemployed for over a year, and sees the possibility of finding full-time employment dwindling.”5
Necessity-driven entrepreneurs often start businesses after setb acks like job loss or illness. Though man y
would prefer stable employment, they turn to entrepreneurship as a w ay to share their skills or products with
others. When traditional paths aren’t available, building a business becomes the only way forward.
An example of this might include a p arent with an autistic child who finds it difficult to w ork a full-time
job and still provide the care and attention re quired to support their child. This parent decides to stay home
to take care of their child be cause they feel they are the best person to do so . The parent then starts to re ceive
many questions from friends and f amily about autism, and they realize that there ma y be a ne ed f or this
type of servic e. They de cide to obtain f ormal credentials, and they c omplete an online program in the field
of autism and beha vioural science. Once formally qualified, they start a business pro viding advice to families
about autism as a f ee-based service. This works well for the necessity entrepreneur because they can now earn
an income by providing a needed service and still take care of their child.
Opportunity Entrepreneur
An opportunity entrepreneur is someone who sees an opportunity to make money, gets involved at the right
time, and aims for business growth and economic development. For example, Matt Horan launched Rollasole
in Bristol, U.K., after his girlfriend c omplained about walking home in heels. His solution? The first foldable
shoe so ld in v ending machines—debute d in a loc al nightclub . Word spread, and soon Ro llasole e xpanded
online, in stores, and ac ross vending machines. A chanc e meeting in Las V egas with Ashley Ross sp arked a
5. Miller, M. (n.d.). The necessity entrepreneur — A path to freedom [updated]. CareerPivot.
6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS | 263

[Page 296]
A true Canadian classic: Starting the day with
Tim Hortons in hand.
partnership that brought the brand to the U.S. market. 6
Sometimes one great idea acts as a c atalyst for other
great ideas, and today we can find vending machines dispensing sneakers, dress shoes, “emergency” shoes, and
“flip flops” for beach wear or when you need a pair of shoes to enter a restaurant. So many great ideas!
Another example of an opportunity entrepreneur is Tim
Horton, who w as a Canadian hockey p layer. In 1964, he
founded the first Tim Horton doughnut shop in Hamilton,
Ontario, which later grew into a chain of franchises ac ross
Canada and ev entually the Unite d States. Burger King
purchased Tim Hortons in 2014, and the tw o brands
became subsidiaries of Restaurant Brands International Inc.
(RBI). As of August 2022, RBI is one of the world’s largest
quick-service restaurant companies with over $35 billion in
annual s ystem-wide sales and o ver 29,000 restaurants in
more than 100 countries.7
Sometimes, a potential entrepreneur identifies an
opportunity to make a new product or start a new business,
which ma y be a c ombination of a profit-making business
idea that also supports a socially sustainab le go al or a
business created out of necessity that not only makes a profit
but also supports a socially sustainable goal.
Media Attributions
“A Person Holding Red and White Disposable Cup” by Hemil Dhanani, used under the Pexels license.
6. Rollasole. (n.d.). About us.
7. Restaurant Brands International. (2022, August 4). Restaurant Brands International Inc. reports second quarter 2022 results.
264 | 6.4: TYPES OF ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 297]
6.5: STEPS TO CREATING A NEW BUSINESS
The Business Dev elopment Bank of Canada (BDC) pro vides an ultimate guide to starting a business in
Canada. This step-by-step guide provides resources and answers to many questions an entrepreneur may need
when considering starting a new business.
• Identify a business opportunity. You may find an opportunity for a new product or business by
identifying a need for something that is currently missing or identifying a problem that is occurring, and
contemplating a way to fix it. Before you start spending money on an idea, it’s essential to ensure your
business idea has the potential to be successful. Conduct research into what other companies are doing
that may be similar to your business concept. Ask yourself these questions. How will your company
stand out from the crowd? Who are your target customers? Will they want your service or product?
How much money will you need, and where will you get it?
• Choose a business structure. In Canada, there are three common types of business structures: sole
proprietorship, partnership, and corporation. Be sure to review the pros and cons and specifics of each
structure at the BDC’s “How to start a business in Canada: The ultimate guide.” A sole
proprietorship is quite informal and easily created, which is why it’s the most common structure
chosen by new entrepreneurs. In this structure, the business and the operator are the same in the eyes of
the law and tax authorities. The downside is that the owner is personally liable for all functions and
debts of the business. A partnership is similar to a sole proprietorship, but instead of one proprietor,
there are two or more. As with a sole proprietorship, there is no legal structure for a partnership.
However, partners usually have some type of contractual agreement among themselves that governs the
sharing of revenues, expenses and tasks. A corporation is formed by incorporating a business. When a
business is incorporated ownership shares are created, which produce a taxation and legal distance
between the company and its shareholders. This has tax advantages for the owners; provides some
liability protection from the corporation’s debts; and offers some measure of protection for a company’s
name. The downside is that setting up a corporation involves initial and ongoing costs for legal and
accounting fees.1
• Choose a business name. Choosing a business name is more challenging than it seems. It needs to be clear,
memorable, and—most importantly—available. Your name often shapes a customer’s first impression,
so choose wisely. Ask yourself: Does it reflect what I offer? Is it easy to remember? Is it unique enough to
1. BDC. (2025, January 13). Your ultimate guide to starting a business in Canada.
6.5: STEPS TO CREATING A NEW BUSINESS | 265

[Page 298]
stand out?2
• Create a business plan. Often, a business plan is used to help secure funding, validate a business idea,
grow an existing business, buy a business, sell a business, or advise clients. It legitimizes a business idea,
shows the results of research, provides product and customer information, and includes operational and
strategic goals. “A business plan is a document that explains how your business operates. It summarizes
your business structure, objectives, milestones, and financial performance. It’s a guide that helps you,
and anyone else, better understand how your business will succeed.”3
Additional information on
business plans is below.
• Obtain business financing. There are many ways to finance a new venture, and depending on the size of
your startup, you might use personal funds or apply for a bank loan (debt financing). Other options
include government grants and subsidies, asking family and friends, crowdfunding, developing
partnerships, business incubators or accelerators, and inviting venture capitalists or angel investors who
may be willing to invest in your business for partial ownership or participation in business decisionmaking (equity financing).
• Choose a commercial space. Your choices here will vary. You may not need a physical location if you are
selling online and working from your home, although if selling products, you will need to consider
suppliers and shipping. If you operate a mobile hot dog cart, you will want to set up in locations where
your customers are. Some mobile food trucks/carts/stands obtain permission to set up outside specific
retail stores. Some food truck owners obtain contracts with various organizations, and they move from
company to company during lunch hours, selling lunch products to employees. If you are going to sell
products or services in a brick-and-mortar store, then you want to consider buying or leasing a space, the
costs of each, and finding a location either near your target market (make more sales near potential
customers) or near your supplier (reduce costs). Licenses may also be required, for example, if you sell
liquor or food products. You may also require insurance.
• Hire employees. Whether or not you hire employees will depend on the size of your business. For
example, if you are opening a hot dog stand, then you may be the only employee you have. If you are
opening a small bakery, you might start out hiring friends and family, although that can be a sticky
situation if you have disagreements. However, some entrepreneurs open restaurants or retail businesses
specifically to start a family-owned business and create jobs and income for their family members. As
your business grows, you may need to hire employees. Take time to do a thorough search so you can find
the right-fit employees; otherwise, you may end up with a lot of headaches and wasted time by hiring the
wrong people. To save time, and depending on the number and type of employees you need, you might
2. BDC. (2025, January 13). Your ultimate guide to starting a business in Canada.
3. Wirth, K. (2022, February 21). What is a business plan? Definition and planning essentials explained. LivePlan.
266 | 6.5: STEPS TO CREATING A NEW BUSINESS

[Page 299]
use a recruiting firm to vet potential candidates for you. While there is usually a cost for this service, it
saves you time (and money) in not having to recruit and select employees yourself.
• Grow your business. Launching your business is just the beginning. The first year is often the
toughest—and when many businesses fail. You’ll need to balance daily operations with long-term
planning. This is the difference between working in the business and working on it. For guidance on
early growth, visit the BDC’s “Manage your growth” hub.4
4. BDC. (2025, January 13). Your ultimate guide to starting a business in Canada.
6.5: STEPS TO CREATING A NEW BUSINESS | 267

[Page 300]
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE
The legal framew ork of a business, business structure or f orm of business o wnership determines ho w the
business is organize d, who o wns it, and ho w it is tax ed. When starting y our business, choose the business
structure that best suits your needs. There are four types of business structures in Canada: sole proprietorships,
partnerships, corporations and cooperatives.
Sole proprietorship
A sole proprietorship is a simple, unincorporated business owned and operated by one person. The o wner
has complete control, receives all profits, and is fully liable for the business’s financial and legal situation. A sole
proprietorship is the easiest and most c ommon way to start a business, but it does c ome with drawbacks, and
all of the responsibility for the business’s success rests with you as the owner. Examples of sole proprietorship
businesses include independent p hotographers, small landscaping companies, freelance writers, and personal
trainers.
Partnership
A partnership is a non-inc orporated business o wned b y tw o or more pe ople who share profits,
responsibilities, and risks.
A major problem with p artnerships, as with so le proprietorships, is unlimite d liability. In this c ase, each
partner is personally liable not only for his or her own actions but also for the actions of all the partners. If your
partner in an architectural firm makes a mistake that causes a structure to collapse, the loss your business incurs
impacts you just as much as it would your partner. And here is the really bad news: if the business does not have
the cash or other assets to c over losses, you can be personally sue d for the amount o wed. In other w ords, the
party who suffered a loss because of the error c an sue you and/or your partner for your personal assets. Many
people are understandably reluctant to enter into partnerships because of unlimited liability. Certain forms of
businesses allow owners to limit their liability. These include limited partnerships and corporations.
Partners are considered self-employed for tax purposes and ha ve unlimited liability unless an LLP (limite d
liability partnership) is c reated. LLP allo ws partners to poo l resources while limiting their liability f or other
partners’ prof essional negligenc e. Limite d p artnerships ha ve at least one general p artner who assumes
unlimited liability, and at least one limited partner whose liability is limited to their investment in the business.
Each Canadian pro vince has its o wn partnership legislation, but all pro vinces recognize general p artnerships
268 | 6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 301]
and limite d p artnerships. P artners ma y ha ve disagre ements; theref ore, a p artnership agre ement usually
stipulates how decisions will be made, how responsibilities will be divided, and how profits will be split.
Partnership Agreement
The impact of disputes c an be lessened if the partners have executed a well-planned partnership agreement
that specifies everyone’s rights and responsibilities. The agreement might provide such details as the following:
• amount of cash and other contributions to be made by each partner
• division of partnership income (or loss)
• partner responsibilities — who does what
• conditions under which a partner can sell an interest in the company
• conditions for dissolving the partnership
• conditions for settling disputes
Corporation
A corporation is a sep arate legal entity from its shareho lders and c an be inc orporated at the f ederal or
provincial lev el. Corporations off er a fle xible structure and the ability to divide o wnership with shares. A
corporation is a legal entity that sep arates the business from its o wner/operator. Therefore, its shareho lders
have limited liability. Corporations can choose to incorporate federally or provincially.
Incorporation makes it possib le for businesses to raise funds b y selling stock. This is a big adv antage as a
company grows and needs more funds to operate and c ompete. Depending on its size and financial strength,
the c orporation also has an adv antage o ver other f orms of business in getting b ank lo ans. An estab lished
corporation can borrow its own funds, but when a small business ne eds a loan, the bank usually requires that
it be guaranteed by its owners.
Corporations are o wned b y shareho lders who in vest money in the business b y buying shares of stock.
Therefore, there is no o wnership c ontrol b y one person, unlike in a proprietorship . The portion of the
corporation that the shareho lders o wn depends on the perc entage of stock they ho ld. F or e xample, if a
corporation has issued 100 shares of stock, and y ou own 30 shares, you own 30 percent of the company. The
shareholders elect a bo ard of dire ctors, a group of pe ople (primarily from outside the c orporation) who are
legally responsible for governing the corporation. The board oversees the major policies and decisions made by
the corporation, sets goals and holds management accountable for achieving them, and hires and evaluates the
top executive, generally c alled the CEO (chief e xecutive officer). The board also appro ves the distribution of
income to shareholders in the form of cash payments called dividends. Ownership can be transferred by selling
shares and therefore is not dependent upon the life of the owner, board of directors or a specific shareholder.
Like sole proprietorships and p artnerships, corporations have both positiv e and negativ e aspe cts. In so le
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 269

[Page 302]
proprietorships and partnerships, for instance, the individuals who o wn and manage a business are the same
people. Corporate managers, ho wever, don’t ne cessarily own stock, and shareho lders don’t ne cessarily work
for the company. This situation can be troublesome if the goals of the two groups differ significantly.
Managers, for example, are often more interested in career advancement than the overall profitability of the
company. Shareholders might c are more about profits without regard f or the w ell-being of emp loyees. This
situation is known as the agency problem, a conflict of interest inherent in a relationship in which one party is
supposed to act in the best interest of the other. It is often quite difficult to prevent self-interest from entering
into these situations.
Another dra wback to inc orporation — one that often disc ourages small businesses from inc orporating
— is the f act that c orporations are more c ostly to set up . When y ou combine filing and lic ensing fees with
accounting and attorney f ees, inc orporating a business c ould set y ou b ack b y $1,000 to $6,000 or more,
depending on the size and scope of your business.1
Additionally, corporations are subject to levels of regulation
and governmental oversight that c an place a burden on small businesses. Finally , corporations are subje ct to
what’s generally called “double taxation.” Corporations are taxed by the federal and provincial governments on
their earnings. When these earnings are distributed as dividends, the shareholders pay taxes on these dividends.
Corporate profits are thus taxed twice—the corporation pays the taxes the first time, and the shareholders pay
the taxes the second time.
Co-operative (for-profit and not-for-profit)
A co-operative is c ontrolled b y its members and c an operate f or profit or as a not-f or-profit. Co-ops are
structured to meet the common needs of their members rather than maximize profits for shareholders. Just like
a corporation, it can be registered provincially or federally, and each option comes with its own advantages and
disadvantages. Some of the largest co-operatives in Canada include:2
• Desjardins: The largest co-operative financial group in Canada.
• Sollio Co-operative Group: The largest agri-food co-operative in Canada.
• Federated Co-operatives: One of the largest companies in Canada.
• South Country Co-op: One of Canada’s largest co-ops.
• Vancity Co-op: Canada’s largest community credit union.
1. AllBusiness. (2016). What a re t he c osts of formi ng a c orporation? Retrieved from https:// www.allbusiness.com/costs-of-forming-acorporation-502-1.html
2. Toomer-McApline, A. (2023, August 7). Co-ops ranked among Canada’s top 50 ‘corporate citizens’. Co-op News.
270 | 6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 303]
The co-operative is democ ratically controlled (one member, one v ote). Ensures all members ha ve input, but
may result in slower decision-making. All members need to participate for a co-op to be successful. Members
receive spe cial disc ounts, deals, e ducation, training, servic es, and sometimes dividends. Surp lus rev enue is
distributed back to the members, proportional to their use of the c ooperative’s services. Members share in
profits and losses, so they may be less willing to take risks or to invest in long-term projects.
Members c ontribute financially to the c o-op b y purchasing membership shares and using the c o-op’s
services. Members participate in the co-op’s governance by attending meetings, voting on major decisions, and
electing the board of directors. Members follow the co-op’s bylaws and policies. Members offer suggestions on
how to improve the co-op. Members volunteer some of their time and often serve on a committee. Therefore,
all members need to participate for a co-op to be successful.
Business Structure Comparison
Refer to Table 6.1 for a comparison of the forms of business ownership.
Table 6.1: Comparison of forms of business ownership
Characteristic Sole
proprietorship Partnership Corporation Co-operative
Ease of formation High High Medium Medium
Continuity Low Low High High
Protection against
liability Low Low High High
Tax advantages High High Low High
Ease of raising money Low Medium High High
Government regulation Low Low High Medium
Other Types of Business Ownership
When starting a new business, an entrepreneur must de cide which choic e is best f or them when it c omes to
starting a business from sc ratch, buying a use d business from another o wner, or buying a franchise business.
Each has its o wn benefits and dra wbacks. Starting a business from sc ratch is ideal f or inno vators with a
strong vision, risk tolerance, and creativity. Buying an existing business is best f or those who want immediate
operations and are c omfortable managing an estab lished system. Franchising is great f or individuals se eking
lower risk and structured support while operating under a recognized brand.
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 271

[Page 304]
Franchising
A franchise is a business where the owner grants licenses to licensees to operate the business (sell its products,
provide services, and more) at a business location. Think of Baskin-Robbins, CrossFit or another business that
you’ve seen in multip le cities. E ach location is a franchise e with its o wn management that p ays a f ee to the
franchisor (the owner) to “rent” the brand name.
Below are the main financial elements of starting a franchise.3
• Franchise purchase fee: This can cost anywhere from $20,000 to $50,000, depending on the license.
• Minimum liquid capital: A generally good idea is to have $50,000 to $60,000 for a service-based
business, and $75,000 to $100,000 of liquid capital for a facilities-based business.
• Franchise royalties: This is a fee you’ll have to continue to pay to operate your business–the royalty fee
can be 4% to 12% of your franchise location’s profits.
• Additional expenses: Franchise businesses also have expenses such as sourcing a commercial space (if
applicable), staffing, and more.
Buying or Merging with an Existing Business
Given the stakes, it’s important to thoroughly w eigh y our business go als, risk to lerance and market
opportunities before making an ac quisition. To learn more about the pros and c ons of buying an e xisting
business, review this BDC article.
3. Rittenberg, J. (2024, April 17). How to start a franchise in 8 steps (2024 guide). Forbes.
272 | 6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 305]
Microsoft acquired Activision Blizzard in 2023.
Acquisitions
A business acquisition is a financial transaction
where one c ompany buys the ma jority or all of
another c ompany’s shares or assets, giving the
acquiring company control over the target company.
Acquisitions are often amic able, with both
companies agre eing to the terms of the deal.
However, the term “acquisition” can also be used to
describe a hostile takeover, where one company buys
a ma jority stake against the wishes of the target
company’s management or bo ard of dire ctors. A
firm effectively gains control of a company if it buys
more than 50% of a target c ompany’s shares.
Acquisitions are often c arried out with the help of
an investment bank because they’re complex arrangements with legal and tax ramifications.4
An example of a business ac quisition is Mic rosoft’s acquisition of Activision Blizzard f or $68.7 billion in
2023. This deal brought popular gaming franchises like Call of Duty , World of Warcraft, and Candy Crush
under Mic rosoft’s umbrella, signific antly boosting its presenc e in the gaming industry . It also positione d
Microsoft to c ompete more aggressiv ely in the gaming market against riv als like Son y and e xpanded its
potential in the growing metaverse and cloud gaming sectors.
Below are a few reasons for a company to acquire another company:5
• Gain vertical integration. A business may want to buy its supplier or another business that is part of its
supply chain to reduce costs and expand capabilities. Helps boost profits and make companies less
dependent on their suppliers or distributors.
• Gain horizontal integration. A business strategy is one where one company takes over another that
operates at the same level in an industry. Helps companies expand in size, diversify their product
offerings, reduce competition, and expand into new markets.
• Enter a foreign market. Buying an existing company in another country could be the easiest way to enter
a foreign market. The purchased business will already have its own personnel, a brand name, and other
4. Kenton, W . (2025, April 4). Acquisition: Mea ning, types, a nd exa mples. Investopedia. Retriev ed M ay 28, 2025, from URL
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/acquisition.asp
5. Kenton, W . (2025, April 4). Acquisition: Mea ning, types, a nd exa mples. Investopedia. Retriev ed M ay 28, 2025, from
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/acquisition.asp
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 273

[Page 306]
intangible assets. This could help to ensure that the acquiring company will start off in a new market
with a solid base.
• Cost of expansion. Perhaps a company met with physical or logistical constraints or depleted its resources.
It may be more cost-effective to acquire another firm rather than to expand its own operations. Such a
company might look for promising young companies to acquire and incorporate into its revenue stream
as a new way to profit.
• Eliminate competition. Companies may start making acquisitions to reduce excess capacity, eliminate the
competition, and focus on the most productive providers when there’s too much competition or supply.
Federal watchdogs often keep an eye on deals that may affect the market. Acquisitions between two
similar companies may harm consumers, including higher prices and lower-quality goods and services.
• Gain new technology. Sometimes it can be more cost-efficient for a company to purchase another
company that has already implemented a new technology successfully than to spend the time and money
to develop the new technology itself.
• Gain intellectual property. A company sometimes purchases another company to gain the other
company’s intellectual property (i.e., trademarks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets).
Mergers
A company merger is when two or more companies join together to form a new company with a single stock.
During a merger, the tw o companies negotiate terms such as the v aluation of assets and the e xchange ratio.
While mergers are often thought of as an e qual split, one c ompany may end up with a larger perc entage of
ownership in the new company. Mergers are similar to acquisitions or takeovers, and the two actions are often
grouped together as mergers and acquisitions (M&A).6
Companies may merge for a number of reasons, including:7
• Increase market share. Merging with another company may allow a company to gain a larger market
share.
• Access new technologies. A company may seek a merger to gain access to new technologies, expertise,
patents, or intellectual property.
• Gain economies of scale. By consolidating operations, a company can reduce redundancies and streamline
processes, which can lead to improved profit margins.
• Diversify. A company can enter new markets or offer new products or services.
• Blend cultural values. A successful merger can lead to a more diverse and inclusive workforce.
6. Schooley, S. (2023, November 8). What you should know about company mergers. Business News Daily.
7. Greenwich. (n.d.). How do mergers and acquisitions work?
274 | 6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 307]
• Enhance competitive position. A merger can strengthen a company’s portfolio or services and better equip
it to meet the needs of consumers.
Strategic Alliances and Joint Ventures
A strategic alliance and a joint v enture are both c ollaborative business arrangements betw een companies, but
they differ in structure, commitment, and goals.
Strategic Alliance
A strategic alliance is a p artnership between two or more businesses to w ork together on a c ommon goal,
while each c ompany remains independent. The go al is to share resourc es and c apabilities to c reate mutual
value, such as by entering new markets, developing new products, or increasing innovation.
The other types of strategic alliances are equity strategic alliances and non-equity strategic alliances:
• Equity strategic alliance: One company buys equity in another company. This is also known as a partial
acquisition.
• Non-equity strategic alliance: Two companies come together without exchanging equity. Each company
brings its resources to the alliance. An example of a non-equity strategic alliance is the partnership
between Starbucks and Indigo.
Joint Venture
A joint venture (JV) is a business c ollaboration in which two or more companies create a new, independent
legal entity to achiev e a spe cific business obje ctive or undertake a p articular proje ct. In this arrangement,
the companies share o wnership, profits, risks, and go vernance of the newly f ormed entity. JVs often re quire
substantial capital investment and a long-term c ommitment, typically concluding once the obje ctive is met
unless the parties agree to extend the venture.
Alternatively, a JV c an also ref er to a business agre ement where tw o or more p arties c ombine resourc es
to pursue a c ommon goal. These v entures leverage the strengths of each p articipant, often yielding mutual
benefits. F or e xample, a hairstylist and a nail salon might c ollaborate in a JV to attract more customers
and increase profits. While JVs can adopt v arious legal structures, they are generally characterize d by shared
ownership, financial returns, risks, and decision-making authority. The terms of the JV are usually outlined in
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 275

[Page 308]
a private and
upon the completion of the specified project.8
There are two main ways of setting up a joint v enture in Canada. The first is f or the partners to agree on a
contract that will set out the terms of the venture; the second is to form a separate corporate entity.9
Below are a few advantages and disadvantages of joint ventures:10
Advantages of a joint venture:
• Increased growth, productivity and profits
• Reduced costs and risks
• Growth opportunity that does not require having to borrow funds or look for outside investors
• Quick access to expertise
Disadvantages of a joint venture:
• Higher likelihood of conflicts arising
• Decreased control and flexibility through joint decision-making
• More widely shared knowledge, which can lead to sensitive information being communicated to other
parties
Generally, the main diff erence betw een a joint v enture and other types of strategic allianc es is that a joint
venture creates a separate legal entity, while a strategic alliance does not. For example, in 2022, these companies
announced a joint v enture to build a b attery plant in Co lumbus, Ohio, to produce lithium-ion EV b atteries
for Honda’s electric vehicles.11
An example of a joint v enture is the one betw een Sony and Honda to c reate an ele ctric vehicle. The joint
venture, called “Afeela”, is a collaboration between the electronics company Sony and the automobile company
Honda. The goal is to combine Sony’s expertise in imaging, networks, and entertainment with Honda’s skills
in mobility development, technology, and sales. The company plans to take pre-orders in 2025 and deliver the
vehicle in the U.S. in 2026.12
Refer to Table 6.2 for key differences between strategic alliances and joint ventures.
8. Hargrave, M. (2024, June 14). Joint venture (JV): What is it, and why do companies form one? Investopedia.
9. BDC. (n.d.). Joint venture.
10. BDC. (n.d.). Joint venture.
11. Suazo, R. (n.d.). 10 joint-venture examples you should know about. Bundl.
12. Hargrave, M. (2024, June 14). Joint venture (JV): What is it, and why do companies form one? Investopedia.
276 | 6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE

[Page 309]
Table 6.2: Key differences between strategic alliance and joint venture
Aspect Strategic Alliance Joint Venture
Legal
Structure No new entity formed New independent entity created
Commitment Flexible and less binding Long-term and formal
commitment
Risk and
Control
Risks and control are
individual
Shared risks, profits, and
governance
Duration Typically short to medium
term Often long-term
Examples Co-branding agreements,
research collaborations
Infrastructure projects, product
development partnerships
Self-Check Exercise: Other Types of Business Ownership
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=211#h5p-11
Media Attributions
“A woman in a gre en hat and white shirt is standing in front of a building” by ZhiCheng Zhang, use d under
the Pexels license.
“Candy crush, Device, Electronics image” by Hemil Dhanani, used under the Pixabay license.
6.6: CHOOSING A BUSINESS STRUCTURE | 277

[Page 310]
6.7: BUSINESS PLAN
A business plan may change as y our business gro ws or piv ots in a new dire ction, so y ou will find that the
business plan is not fixed but flexible and needs to be revised from time to time. Any new or existing business
can and should make use of a business p lan. “In its simp lest form, a business p lan is a guide that outlines
goals for your business and ho w you plan to reach them. It c ontains an o verview of y our business strategy ,
milestones to track tasks and responsibilities, and the basic financial projections you need to forecast your sales,
expenses, and cash flow.”1
“The primary purpose of a business plan is to help you understand the direction of
your business and the steps it will take to get there. Ha ving a solid business plan can help you grow up to 30%
faster, and according to our own 2021 Small Business research, working on a business plan increases confidence
regarding business health, even in the midst of a crisis.”2
There is no one right w ay to write a business p lan; your approach depends on y our industry and who is
reading your plan. Ensure y ou include all the important inf ormation any lender or in vestor will w ant to se e
before they go into business with you.
Below is a brief description of the sections of a traditional business plan.
1. Executive summary. The executive summary is a crucial component of a business plan, often completed
last but read first. It provides a concise overview of the entire plan, typically limited to two pages. Its
purpose is to capture the essence of the business and its goals, serving as a compelling elevator pitch to
attract potential investors.3
2. Company description. “A list of the goods and services the company will provide, the market it will serve,
short- and long-term goals for growth and a brief history of the company’s formation and past
performance.”4
3. Market analysis. The market analysis section identifies the target market and demonstrates the
company’s understanding of its customers and demand. It includes data on demographics, location,
consumer behaviour, and market needs, supported by relevant statistics and sources that give an
overview of the target market size.
1. BPlans. (2016, March 17). What is a business plan? [Video]. YouTube. Retrieved 1 April 2025 from https://youtu.be/FIoGLHT4wGE
2. Wirth, K. (2022, February 21). What is a business plan? Definition and planning essentials explained. LivePlan.
3. Indeed Editorial Team. (2025, March 4). 10 key business plan sections and why they’re important. Indeed.
4. Ferriolo, J. (2021, August 27). Seven sections your business plan should have. Forbes.
278 | 6.7: BUSINESS PLAN

[Page 311]
4. Competitive analysis. A competitive analysis is a strategy that involves researching major competitors to
gain insight into their products, sales, and marketing tactics. Implementing stronger business strategies,
warding off competitors, and capturing market share are just a few benefits of conducting a competitive
market analysis.5
5. Management plan. The management plan outlines the company’s legal structure, key management
personnel, and human resource needs. It specifies staffing requirements, employee compensation, and
any external professionals, such as lawyers, consultants, or architects, that the company will need. If the
company intends to use the business plan to source funding from investors, it should also list the
executive team and advisory board members.6
6. Operating plan. The operating plan outlines the company’s physical and logistical needs, including
facilities, equipment, labour, supplies, and inventory. More complex operations, such as manufacturing,
require detailed plans covering custom infrastructure, raw materials, and supply chains. Simpler
businesses, like home-based consultancies, may need less detail.7
7. Sales and marketing plan. “This section of the plan defines what you plan to do to promote and sell the
company’s products or services. Consider including your pricing plans here and mentioning the
organization’s unique selling proposition. You may also list important communication channels for the
business. For example, if you’re about to launch a retail company, you may explain which social media
channels you’d use to promote the products through paid and organic advertisements. Other elements
to include here are your email, influencer and content marketing strategies.”8
8. Financial plan and projections. The financial plan outlines the company’s budgeting and financial
projections. It includes estimated costs for staffing, development, production, marketing, and other
operations. Established businesses may provide financial statements and balance sheets, while startups
should present forecasts, funding needs, and potential investors.9
9. Appendix. The appendix includes supplementary materials that support the business plan, such as
financial statements, market research reports, or other documents that validate the plan’s assumptions
and projections. These additions enhance credibility and provide deeper insight for readers.10
5. White, C. (2017, June 19). What’s a competitive analysis & how do you conduct one? HubSpot
6. CFI Team. (n.d.). Corporate Finance Institute. Business plan example and template.
7. CFI Team. (n.d.). Corporate Finance Institute. Business plan example and template.
8. Indeed Editorial Team. (2025, March 4). 10 key business plan sections and why they’re important. Indeed.
9. Hayes, A. (2024, June 27). Business plan: What it is, what’s included, and how to write one. Investopedia.
10. Indeed Editorial Team. (2025, March 4). 10 key business plan sections and why they’re important. Indeed.
6.7: BUSINESS PLAN | 279

[Page 312]
Here is an example of a business plan for a hypothetical new product targeted toward Canadian seniors.
Business Name: SureFoot Solutions
Product: SureFoot Smart Walker
Executive Summary: SureFoot Solutions aims to enhance the mobility and safety of Canadian
seniors with our innovative product, the SafeStep Smart Walker. This advanced walker is
equipped with smart technology to provide real-time support, fall detection, and health
monitoring, ensuring seniors can maintain their independence while staying safe.
Market Analysis: The senior population in Canada is rapidly growing, with the number of
seniors aged 75 and older expected to increase by 111.2% between 2014 and 2034.11 This
demographic shift highlights the need for products that support aging in place and improve the
quality of life for seniors. Common health issues among Canadian seniors include mobility
challenges, chronic diseases, and the risk of falls.12
Product Description: The SureFoot Smart Walker is designed to address the mobility and
safety needs of seniors. Key features include:
• Fall Detection: Sensors that detect falls and automatically alert emergency contacts.
• Health Monitoring: Integrated health monitoring for vital signs such as heart rate and
blood pressure.
• GPS Tracking: GPS functionality helps locate seniors in case of emergencies.
• User-friendly Interface: Easy-to-use controls and a display screen for real-time
updates.
• Adjustable Design: Customizable height and ergonomic handles for comfort.
Target Market: Our primary target market includes Canadian seniors aged 65 and older who
experience mobility challenges or have a history of falls. Secondary markets include caregivers
and family members seeking reliable safety solutions for their loved ones.
Marketing Strategy:
11. Mordor Intelligence. (2025). Canada senior living market size and share analysis —growth trends and forecasts (2025 – 2030).
12. Canada Life. (2024, September 19). Common health issues in Canadian seniors.
280 | 6.7: BUSINESS PLAN

[Page 313]
• Partnerships: Collaborate with healthcare providers, senior living communities, and
pharmacies to promote the SureFoot Smart Walker.
• Online Presence: Develop a user-friendly website and leverage social media platforms
to reach a wider audience.
• Educational Workshops: Host workshops and webinars to educate seniors and
caregivers about the benefits of the SureFoot Smart Walker.
• Testimonials: Share success stories and testimonials from users to build trust and
credibility.
Sales Strategy:
• Direct Sales: Offer the product through our website and partner retail stores.
• Subscription Model: Provide an optional subscription service for continuous health
monitoring and emergency response.
• Discounts and Promotions: Offer discounts for bulk purchases and special promotions
during senior-focused events.
Financial Projections:
• Initial Investment: CAD 500,000 for product development, manufacturing, and
marketing.
• Revenue Streams: Product sales, subscription services, and potential partnerships with
healthcare organizations.
• Break-even Analysis: Expected to break even within the first two years of operation,
with projected annual revenue of CAD 1 million by the third year.
Conclusion: SureFoot Solutions is committed to improving the lives of Canadian seniors by
providing innovative, reliable, and user-friendly mobility solutions. With the SureFoot Smart
Walker, we aim to empower seniors to live independently and safely, while offering peace of
mind to their families and caregivers.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The business plan for the SureFoot Smart Walker was
created with the assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text
based on user inputs. In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the
content created using Generative AI tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
6.7: BUSINESS PLAN | 281

[Page 314]
6.8: BUSINESS MODEL CANVAS
The business mod el c anvas is a strategic p lanning too l use d b y managers to illustrate and dev elop their
business model. The business model c anvas temp late clearly identifies the key elements that make up a
business. Additionally, it simp lifies a business p lan into a c ondensed form. In this w ay, the business model
canvas template acts as an executive summary for the business plan.1
The business model c anvas is a great too l to help y ou understand a business model in a straightf orward,
structured way. Using this canvas will lead to insights about the customers y ou serve, what value propositions
are offered through what channels, and how your company makes money. You can also use the business model
canvas to understand y our o wn business model or that of a c ompetitor! The Business M odel Can vas w as
created by Alexander Osterwalder of Strategyzer.2
The typical use for this tool is to outline the fundamental building b locks of a business, but it c an be used
effectively for individual products as w ell. It c an be use d to identify potential opportunities f or growth and
expansion or areas that need improvement. The components may vary, but typically the business model canvas
includes the following nine building blocks, and each is represented by a rectangle in the model diagram.
• Customer segments
• Value proposition
• Channels
• Customer relationships
• Key activities
• Revenue streams
• Key resources
• Key partnerships
• Cost structure
1. CFI Team. (n.d.). Business model canvas template. Corporate Finance Institute.
2. Business Models Inc. (n.d.). Business model canvas.
282 | 6.8: BUSINESS MODEL CANVAS

[Page 315]
Introduction to the Business Model Canvas
Watch the YouTube video below, “Introduction to the Business Model Canvas,” to learn about what
a business model canvas is and why and how you should use one.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=216#oembed-1
Transcript for “Introduction to the Business Model Canvas” Video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed
captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Optima Training (UK) Limited. (2021, July 29). Introduction to the business model canvas.
[Video]. YouTube.[/footnote]
6.8: BUSINESS MODEL CANVAS | 283

[Page 316]
6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS
Government Support
The Go vernment of Canada pro vides support f or entrepreneurs and pro vides spe cific initiativ es to aid
entrepreneurs from v arious demograp hic and ge ographical groups. F or e xample, the Strategic P artnerships
Initiative (SPI) helps Indigenous communities participate in complex economic opportunities. An additional
$300 million is a vailable until 2027 f or clean energy proje cts in Indigenous, rural and remote c ommunities
across Canada. 1
The Aboriginal entrepreneurship program (AEP) pro vides ac cess to c apital and business
opportunities to Indigenous entrepreneurs and business owners in Canada.2
The Go vernment of Canada w ebsite pro vides a search too l for entrepreneurs se eking financial or other
types of support to start or e xpand their businesses. An entrepreneur c an use the business benefits finder to
search for support in sev eral c ategories, including Canadians, Indigenous P eoples, Black Canadians, Other
Racialized P ersons, W omen, Language Minorities, 2SLGB TQI+, New comers to Canada, P ersons with
Disabilities, Youth (<40), and Rural or Northern Residents. Giv e it a try b y visiting the Business Benefits
Finder and discover if there is any government support for you as an entrepreneur.
The Go vernment of Canada and man y chambers of c ommerce ha ve mentoring programs designe d to
facilitate contact between business leaders and budding entrepreneurs. Loc al economic development centres
and some business leaders ’ associations off er similar programs. The Go vernment of Canada ’s Starting a
Business website also provides information on registering a business, getting business support and financing,
choosing a business name, applying f or business permits and lic enses, and tax help . The Canadian
government’s Business Grants and Financing website pro vides inf ormation on Go vernment financing
programs, lo ans and c apital in vestments, w age subsidies, grants, tax c redits, and managing y our business
finances. Some grant and lo an programs in Canada include the Business Start Program (BSP) in M anitoba,
the Youth Entrepreneurship Partnership Program in Ontario, Jeunes Promoteurs in Quebec, and the Canada
Small Business Financing Program.
Some go vernment programs spe cifically off er support to y oung entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who
are p art of spe cific minority groups. F or e xample, Futurpreneur Canada provides inf ormation on startup
1. Canada Energy Regulator. (2023, February 15) Market snapshot: Clean energy projects in remote Indigenous and northern communities.
2. Indigenous Services Canada. (n.d.) Aboriginal entrepreneurship program: Access to business opportunities. Government of Canada.
284 | 6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 317]
financing, mentorship , and resourc es f or Canadians age d 18–39. The Black Entrepreneurship Program
(BEP) aims to support Black entrepreneurs across Canada.
Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC)
The Business Dev elopment Bank of Canada (BDC) offers man y too ls and resourc es, as w ell as advic e, to
entrepreneurs and business owners. The bank supports small and medium-sized businesses in all industries and
at every stage of growth with money and advice.3
Crowd Funding
Crowdfunding is a kind of c rowdsourcing and alternativ e financing b y which pe ople, via the Internet,
can c ontribute money to a person, c ause, ev ent, or business v enture. This method has be en use d to fund
startup businesses, help c ommunities suffering from a natural disaster, and aid f amilies and individuals in
financial need due to a medical emergency or a death. Crowdfunding is now a common method for connecting
entrepreneurs and investors, offering an alternative to bank loans or venture capitalists, and it is now a popular
way of supporting cultural institutions, such as art organizations and charities. Billions of do llars are raise d
annually via this fundraising method. “ A high-profile e xample of c rowdfunding is Oculus VR, no w part of
Meta (the parent company of Facebook). It produces virtual reality headsets and other hardware and software.
The firm’s founder, Palmer Luckey, used Kickstarter to raise $2.4 million (U.S.) in 2012, v astly exceeding its
crowdfunding goal of $250,000. Facebook purchased the company for $2 billion in cash and stock in 2014.”4
Incubators and Accelerators
A business incubator is a specialized program that supports new businesses by offering low-cost office space,
resources, and guidanc e. Startups usually app ly to join and spend a set amount of time in the program to
develop their ideas, learn from others, and reduce early costs.5
A business ac celerator is a program that helps startups gro w quickly b y offering mentorship , funding
3. BDC. (n.d.). About.
4. Costa, D. (2025, April 18). Crowdfunding. Britannica Money.
5. Harper, J. (2025, January 28). What is a business incubator, and how does it work? Indeed.
6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS | 285

[Page 318]
(often in e xchange for e quity), and resourc es. Startups usually ne ed a w orking product and team to app ly.
Programs typically last 3 to 6 months and focus on rapid development and scaling.6
Here are a f ew e xamples of business incub ators and ac celerators. Be sure to che ck with y our c ollege or
university to see if there is an incubator or accelerator available on campus.
MIT
The MIT delta v accelerator is the capstone entrepreneurial experience for students at MIT.7
MIT REAP is a
dynamic global initiative with two programs —Global and Focus—– that engage with c ommunities around
the world to strengthen innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystems and transform economies.8
MaRS
MaRS Discovery District inno vation hub w orks with business startups to sc ale-ups. MaRS offers a range of
services and a Start-up toolkit that help tech founders grow their companies and create meaningful innovation:
solving real prob lems f or real pe ople. M aRS w orks with hundre ds of c ompanies ac ross Canada, turning
breakthrough ideas into products and services with global impact.9
District 3
District 3 Inno vation Hub is a M ontreal-based startup ac celerator affiliated with Conc ordia Univ ersity. It
supports early-stage tech entrepreneurs through c oaching, resources, and access to a c ollaborative innovation
ecosystem. The hub f ocuses on helping f ounders v alidate ideas, build sc alable v entures, and c onnect with
industry and academic partners.
Futurepreneur
Futurpreneur Canada is a national non-profit organization that supports aspiring entrepreneurs age d 18–39.
It provides up to $75,000 in startup financing, one-on-one mentorship , and business resources to help young
6. Hubspot for Startups. (2023, January 16). What is a business accelerator? Everything you need to know. Hubspot.
7. Center for MIT Entrepreneurship. (n.d.). MIT delta v.
8. MIT REAP. (n.d.). Innovation is a global game. MIT Management Sloan School.
9. MaRS. (n.d.). We help high-impact Canadian tech ventures succeed.
286 | 6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 319]
Canadians start or buy businesses. Since 1996, it has helped launch over 18,700 businesses across the country,
promoting inclusive and sustainable economic growth. Their internationally re cognized mentoring program
hand matches y oung entrepreneurs with a business e xpert from a netw ork of more than 2,600 v olunteer
mentors.10
Conestoga College
The Conestoga Entrepreneurship Collective launched in 2019 with a mission to provide
members of the college community with pathways to participation in the innovation
ecosystem.11 Students and alumni can engage in an experience that matches their skills,
aspirations and definitions of success. They can start a new business, launch a freelance
business or join a high-growth company as a B2B sales professional.
Program offerings include:
Venture Lab: A universal business incubator that supports founders with idea-stage and
early-stage ventures across all sectors.
Venture Lab for Tech: A business incubator tailored specifically to the needs of founders with
early-stage tech ideas. 12
Venture Lab for Skilled Trades: A unique program that helps entrepreneurs in the trades
start or build their own business over 15 weeks.13
Gig Lab: Canada’s first and only business incubator for freelancers. The program focuses on
monetizing professional skills. All freelancers who successfully complete the Gig Lab are invited
to launch their business on the Conestoga Gig Marketplace.
Sales Lab: Canada’s first and only incubator for B2B sales careers. The program focuses on
10. Futurepreneur. (n.d.). About.
11. If you are interested in one of the programs in the CEC, you can email the team at entrepreneurship@conestogac.on.ca or visit the Conestoga
Entrepreneurship Collective website.
12. This project is funded in part through the Scale-Up Platform program, an initiative funded by the Government of Canada through the Federal
Economic Development Agency of Southern Ontario (FedDev Ontario) and offered in partnership with Communitech.
13. This initiative is funded by the RBC Foundation as part of RBC’s Future Launch initiative.
6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS | 287

[Page 320]
developing high-potential candidates for entry-level B2B sales jobs to fill demand and address a
well-known hurdle for scaling companies.
Experience Ventures: Provides work-integrated learning experiences alongside real-world
innovators to nurture entrepreneurial thinking.14
Spotlight Story
QuickCasa, co-founded by Stephen McCabe, an alumnus of the Business Administration
Management program in 2017, harnesses artificial intelligence (AI) to generate personalized
interactions for housing providers and uses cognitive AI scoring to understand the ideal
requirements of individuals reaching out about a property. This streamlines engagement and
pre-qualification processes for more efficient and tailored interactions with potential clients.
McCabe credits the guidance and expertise of their Venture Lab coach for making QuickCasa
into a useful tool that is readily embraced by the target market.
“Venture Lab was very powerful in helping solidify what was a fluid idea into something that
you can take to a product. The support is candid, it’s frank, and it’s designed to help founders
move forward. Venture Lab isn’t going to tell you that every idea you have is great. They’re
going to help you build an idea that can grow.”
Attribution: Text © Rose Mastnak, MBA, Director, Conestoga Entrepreneurship Collective.
Used under a Creative Commons Attribution – Non-commercial Share Alike License.

14. This initiative is powered by the Hunter Hub for Entrepreneurial Thinking at the University of Calgary and funded in part by the Government of
Canada’s Innovative Work-Integrated Learning Initiative.
288 | 6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 321]
Vidhya Mohandas: Founder of the Vidhyalaya
Dancespace. Credit: © Vidhya Mohandas, CC
BY-NC-ND.
Vidhya: An Entrepreneur’s Journey Across Continents
Camelia Nunez

More Than One Story to Tell
Born in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, India, Vidhya
Mohandas grew up in a humble middle-class
family that valued learning, discipline, and selfimprovement. From a young age, she was
naturally curious, always exploring, questioning,
and eager to learn.
That love for learning led her into engineering
and eventually into a successful 15-year career
in IT. On her resume, you will see companies like Cognizant Technology Solutions, Bank of America,
and IBM, where she worked as a Business Analyst and Change Manager. Her work involved
stakeholder engagement, complex problem-solving, and leading change. These jobs gave her
financial independence and the ability to fuel her other passions, like travelling.
She had made it a goal to visit a new state in India every year and learn from every landscape,
every culture, and every conversation she had across her country.
Dance—Vidhya’s Childhood Passion
But long before the world of IT, something else had captured her heart, and it never let go. Vidhya
was six years old, playing outside in a small village in North India where her father, a Railway
Station Master, had been posted. It was an ordinary day—until someone put on some music and
the kids started dancing.
When her turn came, something shifted. She became fully immersed in the moment. Her body
moved with instinct, and she felt completely alive. Seen. Connected. Free.
A few curious children gathered. Then a few more. Before long, 50 people had formed a circle
6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS | 289

[Page 322]
around her. Then someone brought out speakers, cleared a space, and created a makeshift stage
using a vegetable cart. What started as a casual game turned into a full-blown performance for
more than 300 people.
That was the moment. That’s when she knew dance wasn’t just something she loved. It was part
of who she was.
From South India to Southwestern Ontario
Though she trained in various dance forms, it was Bharatanatyam that truly shaped her not just as
a dancer, but as a person.
Bharatanatyam is one of India’s oldest classical dance forms. It’s really a discipline that blends
movement, expression, rhythm, and storytelling. To learn is to embody history. To perform it is to
speak through silence.
Over time, Bharatanatyam became more than an art for Vidhya. It became her foundation. Her
language. Her offering. And that’s what she brought with her to Canada.
In 2023, Vidhya, her husband, and their three-year-old daughter moved to Canada. They came with
hopeful hearts and a vision for a life with more opportunity, more freedom, and more space to
grow. Like many newcomers, they didn’t know exactly how things would unfold, but they were
ready to figure it out, one step at a time.
For Vidhya, that step started with a question: “How can I continue to share what I love most, in a
new country with people who might not yet know its value?”
Her answer became Vidhyalaya.
Vidhyalaya Dancespace
Vidhyalaya Dancespace is the school Vidhya dreamed of: not just a place to teach dance, but a
space to build connection, discover (a new) culture and grow your confidence.
Here, students don’t just learn Bharatanatyam—they connect to something deeper. They learn how
rhythm, discipline, and expression can ground you. They discover that art can be both personal and
cultural, ancient and alive.
Vidhyalaya Dancespace also offers:
• Carnatic vocal training, which helps dancers better understand rhythm and expression.
• Yoga to strengthen the body and calm the mind.
290 | 6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS

[Page 323]
• A community where students of all backgrounds are welcomed into a space that celebrates
learning in every form.
Vidhya began by teaching students in their homes. As her student base grew, so did her vision. In
late 2024, she secured her first rental studio in Downtown Kitchener. And now, just a few months
later, Vidhyalaya is expanding again. As of April 2025, Vidhyalaya has a dedicated full-time studio
space with daily classes and even more room to grow.
But what makes Vidhyalaya special isn’t just the dance. It’s the feeling behind it. Vidhya isn’t
teaching for applause or stage lights. She’s teaching for cultural preservation. Connection. For
confidence. For self-expression. And that energy has attracted a growing group of students,
parents, and even instructors who now work alongside her.
She’s created something rare: a space where ancient wisdom is passed on in ways that feel fresh
and alive. A space where students learn more than technique. They learn strength. Stillness.
Expression. Joy. In her words, “We’re not just teaching dance—we’re building a movement of unity,
empowerment, and artistic expression.”
Vidhya’s Advice for Newcomers with Dreams
Don’t be afraid. Don’t wait until everything is figured out. Start. Ask questions. Learn as you go.
Canada has more support and resources than we sometimes realize, but they don’t come to you. You
have to go looking. And when you do, you’ll be surprised by how many kind-hearted people are
willing to help.
And most importantly, believe in what you have to offer. Your experiences, your skills, your culture,
your story—they all have value here.
Every great dream comes with its trials, but those who persist with passion and a clear sense of
purpose will turn those dreams into something real.
No One Builds Alone
Vidhya isn’t just building a business—she’s building bridges across cultures, creating community,
and adding something truly meaningful to the places she now calls home.
I came to Canada as an immigrant with nothing but faith in my roots, passion for my art, and a heart
full of dreams. Through years of learning, unlearning, and believing, I built Vidhyalaya—a space
where tradition meets opportunity. Starting a new business in a new land hasn’t been easy, but
every step has been filled with purpose. I carry forward not just a dance form, but the values,
discipline, and cultural richness that shaped me.
Attribution: Text © Camelia Nunez. Used under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercialNoDerivatives License.
6.9: SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURS | 291

[Page 324]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Entrepreneurship is important for economic growth. New companies create employment,
contribute to a nation’s GDP, and bring new and innovative products and services to
consumers.
2. An entrepreneur is someone who starts, owns and operates a business. It is difficult to
generalize about the kind of people attracted to the idea of starting their own business
because entrepreneurs are increasingly diverse.
3. Some of the key traits or characteristics found in entrepreneurs include passion, risk
tolerance, persistence, and an innovative mindset.
4. Entrepreneurs are motivated by much more than money, and most start their business to
become their own boss.
5. The type of entrepreneur one is depends on their goals and personal characteristics (e.g.,
skills, knowledge, creativity, interests, preferences, situation in life, drive, determination, etc.).
6. A necessity entrepreneur is someone who starts a business based on a need for income,
out of necessity, because they cannot find employment, have lost their job, need to
supplement their income, or require flexibility to attend to other demands in their lives.
7. An opportunity entrepreneur is someone who sees an opportunity to make money, gets
involved at the right time, and aims for business growth and economic development.
8. Social entrepreneurs don’t start companies with their main goal being to make a profit;
instead, their goal is to make a positive change in the world.
9. Steps to creating a new business: Identify a business opportunity, choose a business
structure, choose a business name, create a business plan, obtain business financing, choose
a commercial space, hire employees, and grow your business.
10. A sole proprietorship is a simple, unincorporated business owned and operated by one
person.
11. A partnership is a non-incorporated business owned by two or more people who share
292 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 325]
profits, responsibilities, and risks. The impact of disputes can be lessened if the partners have
executed a well-planned partnership agreement that specifies everyone’s rights and
responsibilities.
12. A corporation is a separate legal entity from its shareholders and can be incorporated at the
federal or provincial level.
13. A co-operative or co-op is controlled by its members and can operate for profit or as a notfor-profit. Co-ops are structured to meet the common needs of their members rather than
maximize profits for shareholders.
14. A business acquisition is a financial transaction where one company buys the majority or all
of another company’s shares or assets, giving the acquiring company control over the target
company.
15. A company merger is when two or more companies join together to form a new company
with a single stock.
16. A strategic alliance is a partnership between two or more businesses to work together on
a common goal, while each company remains independent. The goal is to share resources
and capabilities to create mutual value, such as by entering new markets, developing new
products, or increasing innovation.
17. A joint venture (JV) is a business arrangement where two or more parties combine
resources to achieve a specific goal.
18. Often, a business plan is used to help secure funding, validate a business idea, grow an
existing business, buy a business, sell a business, or advise clients. It legitimizes a business
idea, shows the results of research, provides product and customer information, and includes
operational and strategic goals.
19. The business model canvas is a strategic planning tool used by managers to illustrate and
develop their business model. The business model canvas template clearly identifies the key
elements that make up a business. Additionally, it simplifies a business plan into a condensed
form. In this way, the business model canvas template acts as an executive summary for the
business plan.
20. Support and Education for Entrepreneurs: The University of Toronto’s Entrepreneurship
Open Learning Series, Incubators and Accelerators, Government support, and Crowdfunding.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 293

[Page 326]
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 6: Entrepreneurship and Business Structure [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Entrepreneurial Potential. Take this Self-Assessment or this Entrepreneurial Quiz to help
you identify your entrepreneurial potential.
2. Entrepreneurial Characteristics. Search the Internet to find entrepreneurial traits or
characteristics that most entrepreneurs need to be successful. (Look for traits that are not
already listed in this chapter.) Support each trait with a specific example that demonstrates
how you have applied it in a real-life situation. Share your three traits using examples with
your class or professor.
3. Incubator. Search the Internet to find one business incubator (not already listed in this
chapter) that supports entrepreneurs in developing new business ventures. What does this
incubator do? What services are offered? Do you think these services would be helpful to an
entrepreneur? Share your findings with your partner, class, or professor.
4. Expand Your Network. Visit the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC) and
discover effective strategies for expanding your network. You may use alternate resources
that discuss how to expand your professional network (as determined by your professor).
Put one of these suggestions into action over the next week. Consider what happened,
anything, nothing? Were you surprised at anything you read or tried? What did you find
challenging? Share your thoughts with your partner, class, or professor.
5. Naming a Company. Search the Internet to find some rules for naming a new company.
Consider the rules for naming proprietorships, partnerships, and corporations. For example,
an entrepreneur starting a corporation might visit NUANS, which is the Government of
Canada’s combined search tool for business names and trademarks. Share your findings with
your partner, class, or professor.
6. Social Entrepreneurship. Consider the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals,
294 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 327]
and consider the community you live in. Is there a need for improvement in one or more of
these 17 goals? Have you observed a need for more efficient use of energy, more responsible
consumption and production, or more homes for people living on the streets? Maybe you can
identify another area for improvement? Choose one improvement you assume is needed
based on your observations. Then, search the Internet to find facts that support your
assumption for this need. Is anyone or any company already trying to address this need?
Discuss your findings with your class or professor.
7. Standard of Living/Quality of Life. Standard of living and quality of life utilize some of the
same data, but “standard of living” represents a more physical aspect of life, while “quality of
life” represents the more intangible aspects. Search the Internet to find an example of a
specific entrepreneurial endeavour that changed the standard of living or quality of life for a
specific group of people. Consider how this type of entrepreneur and the goals they pursued
relate to the content in this chapter. Share your findings with your class or professor.
8. Great Entrepreneur. Use the Internet to find a great entrepreneur. Read about their story.
What key characteristics do they have that helped them achieve success? What major
decisions did they have to make along the way to becoming a successful entrepreneur?
Write a brief summary of who this entrepreneur is, what business or invention they created
and its impact, and the major decisions they had to make along the way to achieving success.
Share this story with your class and professor.
9. Hire an Employee. Review the information on the Business Development Canada (BDC)
website about hiring employees. Assume you just opened a small bakery in your community,
and you need an employee to work at the front counter serving customers because you plan
to be helping in the kitchen and managing operations. Write a list of five competencies and/
or qualifications you will be looking for in your new hire. Why did you select each of these?
Share this list and your rationale with your class and professor.
10. Number of Business Startups. Search the Internet to find comparisons between two
countries on the number of new business startups. You may choose any two countries, or
these may be assigned by your professor. A good place to start is by locating world statistics
or national government statistics. Identify the number of new business startups within a
specific country over a specific time frame. Then identify the number of not-for-profit social
enterprises, for-profit social enterprises, or non-social enterprises at all. Are you surprised by
the number of social enterprise start-ups? Why might one country have more new business
start-ups than another? Share your findings with your class and professor.
11. New Startup Research. Assume you are planning to open a coffee shop in your
community. Use the Internet to conduct a competitive analysis. Determine who your
CHAPTER REVIEW | 295

[Page 328]
competitors are. Visit a coffee shop for an hour, order something, and observe the types of
customers that visit and what they purchase. Take note of the menu items and services the
location offers. List three things the company does well that bring value to customers. List
three things you will do in your coffee shop that differ from your competitors in order to be
unique and bring value to customers. Share your lists with your class and professor.

Self-Check Exercise: Type of Business Structure Flash
Cards
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=221#h5p-12
Self-Check Exercise: Business Plan Drag-the-Words
296 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 329]
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=221#h5p-13
Additional Resources
• 13 Types of Entrepreneurs with Examples
• University of Toronto’s Entrepreneurship Open Learning Series
• Forms of Business Ownership. YouTube Video.
• Free Business Plan Examples
• How to Write a Business Plan, BDC
• Business Resources for Indigenous Entrepreneurs
• Business Model Canvas Explained
• Visualizing Your Business Model, YouTube Video
• 20 Canadian Entrepreneurs Who Will Inspire You
• Entrepreneurship Indicators of Canadian Enterprises, 2020, StatsCan
• 10 Reasons Small Businesses Fail, YouTube Video
• Key Small Business Statistics, 2021, Government of Canada
• Forbes 30 under 30 List, Young Entrepreneurs 2021
• Indigenous Entrepreneurship May Be the Driver of Social Innovation
• Notable Indigenous Entrepreneurs in Canada
• 21 Groundbreaking Canadian Entrepreneur Statistics
• Entrepreneurship and Innovation Toolkit, OER eCampus
• Download your free business plan template to start drafting your own plan
• BDC How to Start a Business in Canada
• 10 Tips for Starting Your Own Business, YouTube Video
CHAPTER REVIEW | 297

[Page 330]
• How to Start a Franchise in 8 Steps.
• Mergers and Acquisitions: Types, Structures, and Valuations
• Business Benefits Finder, Government of Canada
• Entrepreneurship Statistics In Canada
• Super Business Girl: Asia Newson (an entrepreneur who started a business when she was
five years old), YouTube Video
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
298 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 331]
CHAPTER 7: MANAGEMENT AND
LEADERSHIP
CHAPTER 7: MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP | 299

[Page 332]
300 | CHAPTER 7: MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP

[Page 333]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
This chapter e xplores the relationship betw een the four management functions. It also pro vides insight into
types of p lanning and p lanning proc esses, managerial skills, en vironmental analyses, organizing, leadership
styles, motivation theories, corporate culture, and controlling functions.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Explain how the four functions of management interrelate.
2. Examine the planning process in management, including the roles of different management
levels in decision-making.
3. Express the significance of different managerial skills necessary for various levels of
management.
4. List the four types of managerial planning and provide an example of each.
5. Describe three environmental analyses (SWOT, PEST, Competitor).
6. Summarize the process of organizing within a management context, including the concepts
of organizational structure, division of labour, departmentalization, and delegation.
7. Review each of the four leadership styles.
8. Recognize the importance of motivation and the basics of major theories of motivation: The
Hierarchy of Needs theory, the Two-Factor theory, the Expectancy theory, and the Equity
theory.
9. Illustrate the process and importance of the controlling function in management, including
setting and measuring performance standards and taking corrective actions.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 301

[Page 334]
7.1: THE FOUR FUNCTIONS OF
MANAGEMENT
The f our functions of management—p lanning, organizing, leading and c ontrolling (POLC)—serv e as the
pillars that allow organizations to meet their goals. These functions are interdependent and equally important
for ensuring the smooth operation of any business. (Refer to Figure 7.1.) The four management functions can
help managers increase organizational efficiency and effectiveness. Efficiency is using the least possible amount
of resources to get work done, whereas effectiveness is the ability to produc e a desired result. Managers need
to be both efficient and effective in order to achieve organizational goals.
The management functions of planning, organizing, leading, and controlling are widely considered to be the
best means of describing the manager’s job, as well as the best way to classify accumulated knowledge about the
study of management. While the environment in which managers operate and the too ls they use have evolved
significantly, managers continue to perform these essential functions.
Figure 7.1: The four functions of management—planning, organizing, leading and controlling (POLC).
302 | 7.1: THE FOUR FUNCTIONS OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 335]
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.1: Four functions of management: planning, organizing, leading and controlling (POLC)” is adapted
from Chapter 6: Management in Introduction to Business, © Seneca College, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
7.1: THE FOUR FUNCTIONS OF MANAGEMENT | 303

[Page 336]
7.2: PLANNING — THE FIRST FUNCTION OF
MANAGEMENT
Planning is the function of management that involves setting objectives and determining a course of action for
achieving those objectives. Planning requires that managers be a ware of the en vironmental conditions facing
their organization and forecast future conditions. It also requires that managers be good decision-makers.
Planning is a proc ess consisting of sev eral steps. The proc ess begins with en vironmental scanning, which
simply means that p lanners must be a ware of the c ritical contingencies facing their organization in terms of
economic conditions, their c ompetitors, and their customers. Planners must then attempt to f orecast future
conditions. These forecasts form the basis for planning.
Planners must establish objectives, which are statements of what ne eds to be achiev ed and when. Planners
must then identify alternativ e c ourses of action to attain these obje ctives. After ev aluating the v arious
alternatives, planners must make de cisions about the best c ourse of action to achiev e their obje ctives. They
must then f ormulate ne cessary steps and ensure eff ective imp lementation of p lans. Finally, p lanners must
constantly ev aluate the suc cess of their p lans and take c orrective action when ne cessary. There are man y
different types of plans and planning.
Levels of Management
There are three levels of management, and each level is responsible for specific planning, decision-making and
organizational activities.
The level of management y ou work in will determine the type of p lanning and de cision-making you will
do. Figure 7.2 shows the three levels of management: top managers, middle managers, and first-line managers
and the activities they do at each level. Top-level managers set objectives, scan the business environment, and
plan and make de cisions that aff ect the o verall health of the organization. Middle-level managers allocate
resources, oversee first-line managers, report to top-level managers and develop and implement activities. Firstline managers (also referred to as customer-f acing or front-line) c oordinate activities, supervise emp loyees,
report to middle managers, and are involved in day-to-day operations.
304 | 7.2: PLANNING — THE FIRST FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 337]
Managerial Decision-Making
Decision-making is the action or proc ess of thinking through possib le options and sele cting one. It is
important to recognize that managers are continually making decisions, and that the quality of their decisionmaking has an impact, sometimes quite significant, on the effectiveness of the organization and its stakeholders.
Stakeholders are all the individuals or groups that are aff ected b y an organization (such as customers,
employees, shareholders, etc.).
Members of the top management team regularly make de cisions that affect the future of the organization
and all its stakeholders, such as deciding whether to pursue a new technology or product line. A good decision
can enable the organization to thriv e and surviv e long-term, while a poor de cision can lead a business into
bankruptcy. Managers at lower levels of the organization generally have a smaller impact on the organization’s
survival, but can still have a tremendous imp act on their dep artment and its w orkers. Consider, for example,
a first-line supervisor who is charged with scheduling workers and ordering raw materials for her department.
Poor decision-making by lower-level managers is unlikely to driv e the entire firm out of e xistence, but it c an
lead to many adverse outcomes, such as:
7.2: PLANNING — THE FIRST FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 305

[Page 338]
• reduced productivity if there are too few workers or insufficient supplies,
• increased expenses if there are too many workers or too many supplies, particularly if the supplies have a
limited shelf life or are costly to store, and
• frustration among employees, reduced morale, and increased turnover (which can be costly for the
organization) if the decisions involve managing and training workers.
Problem Solving and Decision-Making
Click on each step to learn more about the problem-solving model and how to make decisions after
gathering relevant data.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=231#h5p-14
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.2: The thre e levels of management and the tasks perf ormed at each lev el” is reuse d from Levels of
management,
Image descriptions
Figure 7.2
A pyramid showing the thre e levels of management and tasks associate d with each lev el in bullet points. At
the bottom of the pyramid is an area in beige f or the First-line Managers, with four bullet points: Coordinate
306 | 7.2: PLANNING — THE FIRST FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 339]
activities, supervise emp loyees, report to middle managers, and be in volved in da y-to-day operations. The
middle section of the pyramid is in orange with the heading Middle M anagers, with the following four bullet
points under the heading: Alloc ate resourc es, o versee first-line managers; report to top management; and
develop and imp lement activities. The top se ction of the p yramid is in burnt orange and represents the T op
Managers, with three bullet points associated with this section: Set objectives, scan the environment, and plan
and make decisions.
[back to figure]
7.2: PLANNING — THE FIRST FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 307

[Page 340]
7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS
To be a suc cessful manager, y ou’ll ha ve to master a number of skills. T o get an entry-lev el position, y ou’ll
have to be te chnically c ompetent at the tasks y ou’re aske d to perf orm. To adv ance, you’ll ne ed to dev elop
strong interpersonal and conceptual skills. The relative importance of different skills varies from job to job and
organization to organization, but to some extent, you’ll need them all to forge a managerial career. Throughout
your career, you’ll also be e xpected to c ommunicate ideas clearly, use y our time efficiently, and reach sound
decisions.
Technical Skills
You’ll probably be hire d for your first job b ased on y our technical skills — the ones y ou need to perf orm
specific tasks — and y ou’ll use them e xtensively during your early career. If your college major is accounting,
you’ll use what y ou’ve learned to prep are financial statements. If y ou have a marketing degre e and y ou join
an ad agency, you’ll use what you know about promotion to prepare ad campaigns. Technical skills will come
in handy when y ou move up to a first-line managerial job and o versee the task perf ormance of subordinates.
Technical skills, though developed through job training and work experience, are generally acquired during the
course of your formal education.
Interpersonal Skills
As you move up the c orporate ladder, you’ll find that you can’t do everything yourself: you’ll have to rely on
other people to help you achieve the goals for which you’re responsible. That’s why interpersonal skills, also
known as relational skills, which rev olve around the ability to get along with and motiv ate other pe ople, are
critical for managers in mid-level positions. These managers play a pivotal role because they report to top-level
managers while o verseeing the activities of first-line managers. Thus, they ne ed strong w orking relationships
with individuals at all levels and in all areas. M ore than most other managers, they must use “pe ople skills” to
foster teamwork, build trust, manage conflict, and encourage improvement.1
1. Belyh, A. (2023, May 24). 11 management skills used by top managers (types & examples). FounderJar.
308 | 7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS

[Page 341]
Effective communication skills? Maybe not.
Communication Skills
Effective communication skills are c rucial to just
about ev eryone. At all lev els of an organization,
you’ll often be judge d on y our ability to
communicate, both orally and in writing. Whether
you’re talking inf ormally or making a f ormal
presentation, you must e xpress yourself clearly and
concisely. Talking too loudly , ramb ling, and using
poor grammar re duce y our ability to influenc e
others, as does poor written c ommunication.
Confusing and error-riddle d documents (including emails) don’t do y our message an y good, and they will
reflect poorly on you.2
Conceptual Skills
Managers at the top , who are responsib le for de ciding what’s good f or the organization from the bro adest
perspective, rely on conceptual skills — the ability to reason abstractly and analyze complex situations. Senior
executives are often called on to “think outside the box” — to arrive at creative solutions to complex, sometimes
ambiguous problems. They need both strong analytical abilities and strong creative talents.
Time-Management Skills
Time manag ement skills are te chniques that help y ou p lan and organize y our time to c omplete tasks
and achiev e go als. M anagers f ace multip le demands on their time, and their da ys are usually fille d with
interruptions. Ironically, some technologies that were supposed to save time, such as voicemail and email, have
actually increased workloads. Unless you develop certain time-management skills, you risk reaching the end of
the day feeling that y ou’ve worked a lot but ac complished little. What c an managers do to ease the burden?
Here are a few common-sense suggestions:
• Prioritize tasks, focus on the most important things first.
• Set aside a certain time each day to return phone calls and answer email.
• Delegate routine tasks.
2. Belyh, A. (2023, May 24). 11 management skills used by top managers (types & examples). FounderJar.
7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS | 309

[Page 342]
• Don’t procrastinate.
• Insist that meetings start and end on time, and stick to an agenda.
• Eliminate unnecessary paperwork.3
Decision-Making Skills
Every manager is e xpected to make de cisions, whether alone or as p art of a team. Dra wing on your decisionmaking skills is often a process in which you must define a problem, analyze possible solutions, and select the
best outcome. As luck would have it, because the same process is good for making personal decisions, we’ll use
a personal example to demonstrate the process approach to decision making. Consider the following scenario:
you’re upset be cause your midterm grades are much lo wer than y ou’d hope d. To make matters w orse, not
only are y ou in troub le academically, but also the other members of y our business-project team are anno yed
because you’re not pulling y our weight. Your lac rosse coach is v ery upset be cause you’ve misse d too man y
practices, and members of the mountain-biking club , of which y ou’re supposed to be president, are talking
about impeaching you if you don’t show up at the next meeting. And your significant other is feeling ignored.
Common Managerial Skills
Here are examples of some of the common skills possessed by managers.
Technical Skills
• Data Analysis: Ability to interpret complex data sets to make informed decisions.
• Project Management: Proficiency in using project management software like Microsoft
Project or Trello.
• Financial Acumen: Understanding financial statements and budgeting.
Interpersonal Skills
• Team Building: Creating a cohesive team environment.
3. Belyh, A. (2023, May 24). 11 management skills used by top managers (types & examples). FounderJar.
310 | 7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS

[Page 343]
• Conflict Resolution: Mediating disputes and finding mutually beneficial solutions.
• Empathy: Understanding and addressing team members’ concerns and needs.
Communication Skills
• Public Speaking: Delivering presentations and speeches effectively.
• Active Listening: Fully concentrating, understanding, and responding to team members.
• Written Communication: Crafting clear and concise emails, reports, and
documentation.
Conceptual Skills
• Strategic Planning: Developing long-term goals and plans.
• Problem Solving: Identifying issues and creating effective solutions.
• Innovation: Thinking creatively to improve processes and products.
Time Management Skills
• Prioritization: Identifying the most important tasks and focusing on them.
• Delegation: Assigning tasks to the right team members to maximize efficiency.
• Scheduling: Creating and adhering to timelines and deadlines.
Decision-Making Skills
• Risk Assessment: Evaluating potential risks and benefits before making decisions.
• Analytical Thinking: Breaking down complex problems to make informed choices.
• Decisiveness: Making timely decisions and taking responsibility for outcomes.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The feature box on “Common Managerial Skills” was
created with the assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text
based on user inputs. In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the
content created using Generative AI tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS | 311

[Page 344]
Media Attributions
“Students, Announcement, Communication” by Sasin Tipchai, used under the Pexels license.
312 | 7.3: MANAGERIAL SKILLS

[Page 345]
7.4: THE FOUR TYPES OF MANAGERIAL
PLANNING
Management’s investment decisions and risk management strategies are inf ormed by industry dynamics and
the four stages of the industry life cycle (also referred to as the business cycle), which include expansion, peak,
contraction, and trough (discussed in the chapter on economics).
An understanding of the industry lif e c ycle c an help c ompanies manage their operational and financial
decisions and activities so that they position themselves to achieve important goals, including product research
and development, implementing innovative technology, expanding their customer b ase, and more. External
factors that affect a business are often analyzed through a PEST analysis.
Strategic Planning
Strategic p lanning involves analyzing c ompetitive opportunities and threats, as w ell as the strengths and
weaknesses of the organization, and then determining how to position the organization to compete effectively
in its environment. Strategic p lanning has a long time frame, often thre e years or more. It generally includes
the entire organization and includes the f ormulation of obje ctives. Strategic p lanning is often b ased on the
organization’s mission, which is its fundamental reason f or e xistence. An organization’s top management
is most often responsib le for strategic p lanning. Strategic managers are often in volved with dev eloping and
writing company mission, vision, and value statements.
Planning begins at the highest level of management and works its way down through the organization.
Step one is usually c alled strategic p lanning: the proc ess of estab lishing an o verall c ourse of action. T o
begin this proc ess, a manager/o wner should ask a c ouple of v ery basic questions: why, for example, does the
organization exist? What v alue does it c reate? Sam Walton posed these questions in the proc ess of f ounding
Walmart: his new chain of stores would exist to offer customers the lowest prices with the best possible service.
Once the purpose of the c ompany has been identified, the manager is ready to take the remaining steps in
the strategic-planning process:
1. Write a mission statement that tells customers, employees, and others why the organization exists.
Review this BDC article, 5 Tips for Creating a Winning Mission Statement, for tips on writing a
mission statement.
2. Identify core values or beliefs that will guide the behaviour of the members of the organization. Review
this article, 4 Steps to Creating Your Company Core Values, for tips on creating company core values.
7.4: THE FOUR TYPES OF MANAGERIAL PLANNING | 313

[Page 346]
3. Assess the company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. Performing a SWOT Analysis is
a good start. It is also important to conduct various business environment scans and analyze how these
conditions will affect the business.
4. Establish goals and objectives, or performance targets, to direct all the activities that will be performed to
achieve the mission. So, the next step in the strategic-planning process is establishing goals and
objectives. Goals are major accomplishments that the company wants to achieve over a long period.
SMART is an acronym used to guide and set goals: Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and
Time-Based. (Refer to Figure 7.3.) Review this article, SMART Goals: What They Are and How to
Write Them, for tips on how to write SMART goals.
5. Develop and implement tactical and operational plans to achieve goals and objectives.
Figure 7.3: SMART Goals—goals that are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-based.

Tactical Planning
Tactical planning is intermediate-range (one to thre e years) planning that is designe d to dev elop relatively
concrete and spe cific means to imp lement the strategic p lan. Middle-level managers often engage in tactic al
planning.
314 | 7.4: THE FOUR TYPES OF MANAGERIAL PLANNING

[Page 347]
Operational Planning
Operational planning generally assumes the existence of organization-wide or sub-unit go als and objectives
and spe cifies ways to achiev e them. Operational p lanning is short-range (less than a y ear) p lanning that is
designed to dev elop spe cific action steps that support the strategic and tactic al p lans. First-lev el managers
engage in operational planning.
Contingency and Crisis Planning
Contingency and c risis planning are plans for what actions to take when things go wrong. P erhaps your
plans w ere fla wed, or ma ybe something in the en vironment shifte d une xpectedly. Suc cessful managers
anticipate and p lan for the une xpected. Dealing with unc ertainty re quires c ontingency p lanning and c risis
management.
Types of Planning
Watch the YouTube video, “Types of Planning: Strategic, Tactical, Operational & Contingency
Planning,” to learn how the levels of planning interconnect.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=238#oembed-1
Transcript for “Types of Planning: Strategic, Tactical, Operational & Contingency Planning” video
[PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Brigole, J. (2021, March 24). Types of planning: Strategic, tactical, operational & contingency
planning [Video]. YouTube.
7.4: THE FOUR TYPES OF MANAGERIAL PLANNING | 315

[Page 348]
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.3: SMART Goals: specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time based” is adapted from Chapter
8: M anagement and Leadership in Fundamentals of Business: Canadian E dition, © P amplin Co llege of
Business and Virgina Tech Libraries, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
316 | 7.4: THE FOUR TYPES OF MANAGERIAL PLANNING

[Page 349]
7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
A business en vironment anal ysis is a s ystematic proc ess that ev aluates the internal and e xternal f actors
impacting a business. Bef ore p lanning c an be done, an analysis of the business en vironment should be
conducted by researching and analyzing market c onditions, competition, trends, and other e xternal factors
that c ould influence the business ’s strategy. En vironmental analysis p lays an essential ro le in a c ompany’s
strategic planning by providing a clear and thorough understanding of external business factors and how they
affect the company. Analyses help the company to take advantage of opportunities, reduce risks, and come up
with good plans that lead to growth and success.
As this book is written for an introduction to business (usually a survey course at colleges and universities),
we will not take these c oncepts into too much depth. Later in y our business studies, when y ou c omplete
management, leadership, analytics, and other courses, you will utilize these analysis models to a fuller extent.
PEST Analysis
PEST is the term use d for an external environment scan, whereby a business collects and analyzes data on the
political, economic, social, and technological aspects of the environment in which the business operates. PEST
can be extended to include the legal, environmental, and ethical aspects of the business environment, and when
included, the acronym is referred to as PESTEL or PESTLE, PESTLEE. Many people refer to the analysis as a
PEST analysis and include all the factors mentioned here. (Refer to Figure 7.4.)
7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS | 317

[Page 350]
Figure 7.4: Acronym for PESTEL—Political, Economic, Sociocultural, Technological, Environmental, and
Legal. [See image description.]
318 | 7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS

[Page 351]
SWOT Analysis
A SWOT anal ysis is a framew ork f or identifying and analyzing an organization’s strengths, w eaknesses,
opportunities and threats. These words make up the SWOT acronym. The primary goal of a SWOT analysis is
to increase awareness of the factors that go into making a business decision or establishing a business strategy.
Each of the four components of a SWOT analysis is explained in greater detail below.1
• Strengths. Your Strengths are internal positives about your company that you can control and that often
provide you with a competitive advantage. Some examples might be the quality of your product, the
effectiveness of your processes, your access to physical or team assets or other competitive advantages.
• Weaknesses. A Weakness is an adverse internal attribute of your company that detracts or takes away
from your strengths. Some examples might include knowledge gaps on your team, a low-quality
product, a lack of money or other tangible assets, bad location and more.
• Opportunities. An Opportunity is an external factor that provides promise or is likely to contribute to
your potential success. Some examples might include the growth rate in your industry, specific laws or
policies that will benefit the need for your product, positive customer feedback or technological
advancements.
• Threats. A Threat is an external factor that you have no control over, which could negatively impact
your success. These are typically acknowledged so that you can provide a plan to overcome each one.
Some examples include potential future competitors, costs of supply, upcoming market trends, negative
technology changes and upcoming regulations or laws.
Here’s a SWOT analysis for Lululemon, the Canadian athletic apparel brand:
SWOT Analysis
Strengths:
• Strong Brand Identity: Lululemon is well-known for its high-quality, stylish athletic
wear, particularly in the yoga and fitness communities.
• Customer Loyalty: The brand has a loyal customer base that appreciates its innovative
1. White, J. & Bottorff, C. (2024, May 28). What is a SWOT analysis? Forbes.
7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS | 319

[Page 352]
designs and premium products.
• Innovative Products: Lululemon consistently introduces new products and materials,
maintaining its reputation for innovation.
• Community Engagement: The brand actively engages with its community through
events, classes, and partnerships, fostering a strong connection with its customers.
Weaknesses:
• High Prices: Lululemon’s products are often priced higher than those of competitors,
which may limit its customer base to higher-income consumers.
• Limited Market Reach: While Lululemon has a strong presence in North America, its
international market penetration is still growing.
• Dependence on Physical Stores: Despite a growing online presence, Lululemon still
relies heavily on its physical stores for sales, which can be a vulnerability in times of
economic downturn or pandemics.
Opportunities:
• Global Expansion: Lululemon has significant potential to expand its presence in
international markets, particularly in Asia and Europe.
• Product Diversification: Expanding into new product categories, such as men’s apparel
and accessories, can attract a broader customer base.
• Sustainability Initiatives: Increasing focus on sustainable and eco-friendly products
can appeal to environmentally conscious consumers.
• Digital Growth: Enhancing its e-commerce platform and leveraging digital marketing
can help Lululemon reach a wider audience and increase sales.
Threats:
• Intense Competition: The athletic apparel market is highly competitive, with strong
players like Nike, Adidas, and Under Armour.
• Economic Uncertainty: Economic downturns can affect consumer spending on
premium products, impacting Lululemon’s sales.
• Supply Chain Disruptions: Global supply chain issues can affect product availability and
increase costs.
• Changing Consumer Preferences: Rapid changes in fashion trends and consumer
preferences can pose a challenge to maintaining relevance.
320 | 7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS

[Page 353]
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The SWOT analysis for Lululemon was created with the
assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text based on user
inputs. In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the content created
using Generative AI tools is shared under a CC 1.0 Universal Deed.
SWOT Analysis
Watch the YouTube video, “SWOT Analysis” to learn how to analyze a company’s strengths,
weaknesses, opportunities and threats.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=243#oembed-1
Transcript for “SWOT Analysis” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: SmartDraw. (2018, August 17). SWOT Analysis – What is SWOT? Definition, examples and
how to do a SWOT analysis. [Video]. YouTube.
Competitor Analysis
A competitor analysis in business involves examining similar brands in the same industry to gain insight into
other companies’ offerings, brands, sales, and marketing approaches.
7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS | 321

[Page 354]
The Five Forces Analysis Explained
Watch the YouTube video, “The Five Forces Analysis Explained,” to learn how to apply the Five
Forces Analysis to a coffee shop within this industry.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=243#oembed-2
Transcript for “The Five Forces Analysis Explained” Video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available on YouTube.
Source: Sim Institute. (2020, November 15). The Five Forces Analysis Explained [Video]. YouTube.
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.4: Ac ronym for PESTEL: P olitical, Economic, Sociocultural, T echnological, Environmental, and
Legal” is adapted from External Forces that Influence Business Activities in NSCC Fundamentals of Business,
© Pamplin College of Business and Virgina Tech Libraries, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Image descriptions
Figure 7.4
The image is a v ertical inf ographic outlining the PESTEL framew ork. E ach c ategory is represente d b y an
orange rightward-pointing arrow containing the first letter of its name in white, bold text. To the right of each
arrow, the category name is in black bold text, followed by a brief description in smaller black text:
P – Political: The impact of government including taxes, tariffs, trade agreements, and labor regulations
E – Economic: Includes inflation, employment rates, exchange rates, oil prices, GDP growth and others
S – Sociocultural: Includes cultural attitudes and demographic factors such as age, race, and income
322 | 7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS

[Page 355]
T – T echnological: Includes the imp act of the internet, smart devic es, and automation on business and
society
E – En vironmental: Includes a vailability and c are f or natural resourc es, po llution lev els, and c arbon
footprints
L – Legal: Requirements related to labor and consumer protection, equality, and product safety
[back to figure]
7.5: ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS | 323

[Page 356]
7.6: ORGANIZING — THE SECOND
FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT
A se cond key function of managers is organizing, which is the proc ess of c oordinating and alloc ating a
firm’s resources in order to c arry out its p lans. Organizing includes dev eloping a structure f or the pe ople,
positions, departments, and activities within the firm. Managers can arrange the structural elements of the firm
to maximize the flow of information and the efficiency of work processes. They accomplish this by doing the
following:
• Dividing up tasks (division of labour)
• Grouping jobs and employees (departmentalization)
• Assigning authority and responsibilities (delegation)
Organizing is the function of management that involves developing an organizational structure and allocating
human resourc es to ensure the ac complishment of obje ctives. The structure of the organization is the
framework within which effort is coordinated. The structure is usually represented by an organizational chart,
which provides a grap hic representation of the chain of c ommand within an organization. De cisions made
about the structure of an organization are generally referred to as organizational design decisions.
Organizational Structure
Businesses use organizational charts to depict the reporting structure within the organization. Depending
on the number of layers in an organizational chart, the company’s command chain can be identified along with
each manager’s sp an of c ontrol. Span of c ontrol can be defined as the total number of dire ct subordinates
that a manager can control or manage. The number of subordinates manage d by a manager varies depending
on the c omplexity of the w ork.1
The v ertical lines in an organizational chart represent a f ew things: flo ws
of c ommunication as w ell as the authority relationships among pe ople w orking at v arious lev els of the
organization.
1. Bhasin, H. (2024, December 12). Span of control – Definition, meaning, factors, examples. Marketing91.
324 | 7.6: ORGANIZING — THE SECOND FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 357]
What is Organizational Structure?
Watch the YouTube video, “What is Organizational Structure?” to learn how companies structure
their business operations.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=246#oembed-1
Transcript for “What is Organizational Structure?” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available on YouTube.
Source: Marketing Business Network. (2019, May 18). What is organizational structure? [Video].
YouTube.
3M’s Organizational Structure
3M’s organizational structure is mainly hierarchical at the corporate level. The company has largescale operations in multiple industries. This large organizational size requires top leaders to have
strong command and control of the business. For such command and control to be realistically
achieved, 3M needs to maintain a hierarchical structure.2
2. Thompson, A. (2024, December 15). 3M industry, organizational structure, management philosophy. Panmore Institute.
7.6: ORGANIZING — THE SECOND FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 325

[Page 358]
3M has operations in different types of markets, such as healthcare, electronics, communications,
and transportation. With its company structure, the conglomerate has diverse competitors,
including General Electric. 3M maintains a departmental organizational structure under the larger
corporate hierarchical structure. This departmental organizational structure ensures that 3M’s
different businesses are properly managed. Also, departments have their own unique structures.
For example, some departments have a matrix structure, while others are more hierarchical. The
matrix organizational structure is used in R&D to support 3M’s innovation through employee
contributions.3
Organizing also in volves the design of individual jobs within the organization. De cisions must be made
about the duties and responsibilities of individual jobs, as w ell as the manner in which the duties should be
carried out. Decisions made about the nature of jobs within the organization are generally c alled “job design”
decisions.
Organizing at the lev el of the organization in volves deciding how best to dep artmentalize, or cluster, jobs
into departments to coordinate effort effectively. There are many different ways to departmentalize, including
organizing by function, product, geography, or customer. Many larger organizations use multiple methods of
departmentalization.
Organizing at the level of a particular job involves how best to design individual jobs to most effectively use
human resources. Traditionally, job design w as based on princip les of division of labour and spe cialization,
which assumed that the narrower the job content, the more proficient the individual performing the job could
become. However, experience has shown that it is possible for jobs to become too narrow and specialized. For
example, how would you like to sc rew lids on jars da y after day, as you might have done many decades ago if
you worked in a c ompany that made and so ld jellies and jams? When this happens, negativ e outcomes result,
including decreased job satisfaction and organizational commitment, increased absenteeism, and turnover.
Many organizations have attempted to strike a b alance between the need for worker specialization and the
need for workers to ha ve jobs that entail v ariety and autonom y. Many jobs are no w designed based on such
principles as empowerment, job enrichment and teamwork.
3. Thompson, A. (2024, December 15). 3M industry, organizational structure, management philosophy. Panmore Institute.
326 | 7.6: ORGANIZING — THE SECOND FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 359]
How Companies Get Jobs Done
Building an organizational structure engages managers in tw o activities: job specialization (dividing tasks into
jobs) and departmentalization (grouping jobs into units).
• Job Specialization.Organizing activities into clusters of related tasks that can be handled by certain
individuals or groups is called job specialization. This aspect of designing an organizational structure is
twofold: 1) Identify the activities that need to be performed to achieve organizational goals. 2) Break
down these activities into tasks that can be performed by individuals or groups of employees.
• Departmentalization. Departmentalization is grouping specialized jobs into meaningful units.
Depending on the organization and the size of the work units, they may be called divisions,
departments, or just plain groups. Traditional job groupings result in different organizational structures,
and for the sake of simplicity, we focus on two types—functional and divisional organizations.
Types of Divisional Organization with Company and
Industry Examples
A divisional organizational structure is a type of organizational structure where a c ompany is divided into
independent divisions that operate like their own companies within the larger organization. Each division has
its own resources, teams, and responsibilities.
• Product Divisions. An organizational design where a company is structured around its different
product lines. Examples: General Motors uses product-based divisions for their various automotive lines
— Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, and GMC.
• Customer Divisions. An organizational design where the company is structured around different
customer groups or segments, allowing it to tailor products, services, and operations to meet specific
customer needs. Example: Johnson & Johnson is divided into three consumer-based structures —
consumer business, pharmaceuticals, and professional business.
• Process Divisions. An organizational design where the company is structured around the processes
needed to create a product or service. Example: Many hospitals use a process-based organizational
structure, organizing departments around key stages of patient care such as intake, treatment, recovery,
and discharge to improve efficiency and outcomes.
• Geographical Divisions. An organizational design where the company is structured by geographical
location, allowing it to respond to customers more effectively based on their physical location. Example:
Adidas is set up so that it can operate effectively in the five regions of the world where it operates.
7.6: ORGANIZING — THE SECOND FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 327

[Page 360]
7.7: LEADING — THE THIRD FUNCTION OF
MANAGEMENT
The third management function is leading—providing focus and direction to others and motivating them to
achieve organizational goals.
A leader can be anyone in an organization, regardless of position, who is ab le to influence others to act or
follow, often by their own choice. Managers are designated leaders according to the organizational structure,
but ma y ne ed to use negativ e consequences or c oercion to achiev e change. In the organizational structure,
top managers use leadership skills to set, share, and gain support f or the c ompany’s dire ction and strategy ,
mission, vision, and values, as Jeff Bezos does at Amazon. Middle and supervisory management use leadership
skills in the proc ess of dire cting emp loyees on a daily b asis as the emp loyees c arry out the p lans and w ork
within the structure c reated by management. The top-lev el leadership demonstrate d by Jeff Bezos w as also
exemplified by Jack Welch during his tenure at General Ele ctric, inspiring numerous studies on his leadership
style. Organizations need strong, effective leadership at all levels in order to meet goals and remain competitive.
Governance Board Membership
The Board of Directors serves as a governing body that represents the interests of community
stakeholders in non-profit organizations and of shareholders in corporate boards. Forming a skilled
and balanced group of individuals to work on boards promotes respectful and productive
discussions, which is fundamental to achieving organizational success. Minority populations,
however, are found to be vastly underrepresented in the boardroom. In 2020, a report on diversity
disclosure practices demonstrated that only 0.5% of board members in Canada were of Indigenous
descent. Corporations have yet to realize that Indigenous board members contribute valuable
knowledge and perspectives, as well as attract and retain more Indigenous talent. It additionally
provides organizations with the opportunity to demonstrate respect for the social, cultural, and
environmental values of Indigenous populations. These advantages are expanded upon by
Indigenous professional Krystal Abotossaway, who recounts her experiences as a board member.
328 | 7.7: LEADING — THE THIRD FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 361]
Watch the Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business “Governance Board Membership” video.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=249
Transcript of “Governance Board Membership” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed caption available in
video player.
Source: “Governance Board Membership” by University of Windsor, is licensed under CC BY-NCND 4.0, available in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business by Russell Evans, Michael Mihalicz,
and Maureen Sterling, licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license, except where otherwise noted.
Leadership Style
There are f our b asic leadership sty les: Autoc ratic, Democ ratic, Transformational, and Fre e-rein (Laissezfaire).
Autocratic Style
Autocratic leaders make decisions independently and e xpect subordinates to f ollow detailed instructions.
Information flows one w ay, from manager to subordinate. This style is c ommon in the military and c an be
effective in emergencies, such as a factory fire, where quick, decisive action is needed. Autocratic leaders may be
seen as narrow-minded and controlling, as they typically do not seek input from employees and make decisions
on their own.
Democratic Style
Democratic leaders share de cision-making with group members and enc ourage discussion. This style w orks
well in c ollaborative environments, like a marketing team brainstorming ideas. Participative leaders use a
democratic, consensual, consultative style. The leader enc ourages team p articipation and v alues group input
before making decisions. There are three types of participative leaders:
7.7: LEADING — THE THIRD FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 329

[Page 362]
• Democratic leaders: Group votes on decisions.
• Consensual leaders: All parties agree on the final decision.
• Consultative leaders: The leader makes the final decision after consulting the team.
Transformational
Transformational l eadership is a leadership style that c an inspire positiv e changes in those who f ollow.
Transformational leaders inspire positiv e changes through energy and p assion. They f ocus on helping ev ery
member suc ceed b y c onveying a clear vision and re charging the team. This style is eff ective in modern
organizations for team building and inno vation, like a te ch startup f ounder inspiring the team to dev elop a
groundbreaking app.
Free-Rein Style
The third leadership style, at the opposite end of the c ontinuum from the autoc ratic style, is free-rein or
laissez-faire (French for “leave it alone”) leadership.
Free-rein leaders pro vide minimal supervision, allo wing employees to make de cisions independently. This
style works well with highly trained professionals, like a software development team. However, some criticism
of free-rein leaders is that this c an lead to frustration and c onfusion if expectations are unclear or f eedback is
lacking.
Situational Leadership
Effective leaders use situational leadership, adapting their style to match the maturity and competency levels
of employees. New hires ma y need authoritative leadership, while experienced employees may perform better
under participative or free-rein styles. This approach empowers employees.
Self-Check Exercise: Leadership Style Quiz
Can you determine the leadership style of these leaders? Try the short quiz below.
330 | 7.7: LEADING — THE THIRD FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 363]
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=249#h5p-15
7.7: LEADING — THE THIRD FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 331

[Page 364]
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES
How do managers motivate employees to do quality work? This question is difficult to answer because people
are motiv ated b y diff erent things at diff erent stages in their lif e, their c areer, and their personal gro wth.
Highly motivated employees focus their efforts on achieving spe cific goals. It’s the manager’s job , therefore,
to motivate employees—to get them to try to do the best job they c an. Motivated employees call in sick less
frequently, are more productive, and are less likely to c onvey bad attitudes to customers and c oworkers. They
also tend to stay in their jobs longer, reducing turnover and the cost of hiring and training employees.
Personal Motivation
They may be intrinsically or extrinsically motivated, or by a combination of both.
Intrinsic motivation.This is when motiv ation comes from within; in other w ords, a person has it within
themselves to be, sta y, or be come motiv ated. F or e xample, a person ma y be intrinsic ally motiv ated b y the
enjoyment of doing a task, the satisfaction of a job well done, or the desire to achieve a work-related goal.
Extrinsic motivation. This is when motivation comes from external factors; in other words, a person needs
an incentive to be, stay, or become motivated. For example, a person may be extrinsically motivated by the pay
they receive, bonuses they receive, avoiding punishment, gaining recognition or prestige, or perks of the job.
Motivational Theories
Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs
According to Maslow’s hierarchy of needs, the idea is that we need to satisfy lower-level needs before we move
to the other levels; once we have satisfied the lower-level need(s), we move on to the ne xt level as the previous
one no longer satisfies us. Consider how this can play out in the workplace.
What implications does M aslow’s theory have for business managers? There are tw o key points: (1) Not
all employees are driven by the same ne eds, and (2) the ne eds that motivate individuals can change over time.
Managers should consider the needs that different employees are trying to satisfy and should structure rewards
and other f orms of re cognition accordingly. For example, when y ou got y our first job repossessing c ars, you
were motivated by the ne ed for money to buy f ood. If you’d been given a choice between a raise or a p laque
recognizing y our ac complishments, y ou’d undoubte dly ha ve opte d f or the money . As a city c ouncillor, b y
contrast, you may prefer public recognition of work well done (say, election to higher office) to a pay raise.
332 | 7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES

[Page 365]
As shown in Figure 7.5, M aslow’s Hierarchy of Ne eds ranges from the highest lev el (self-actualization) to
the lowest level (physiological needs):
• Self-Actualization: Mortality, creativity, spontaneity, problem-solving, lack of prejudice, acceptance of
facts
• Esteem: Self-esteem, confidence, achievement, respect of others, respect by others
• Social: Love/belonging through friendship, family, sexual intimacy
• Safety: Security of body, of employment, of resources, of the family, of health, of property
• Physiological: Breathing, food, water, sex, sleep, homeostasis, excretion
Figure 7.5: Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs. [See image description.]
Two-Factor Theory
Another ps ychologist, Fre derick Herzberg, set out to determine which w ork f actors (such as w ages, job
security, or advancement) made people feel good about their jobs and which factors made them feel bad about
their jobs. He surveyed workers, analyzed the results, and concluded that to understand employee satisfaction
(or dissatisfaction), he had to divide work factors into two categories:
• Motivation factors: Those factors that are strong contributors to job satisfaction.
• Hygiene factors: Those factors that are not strong contributors to satisfaction but that must be present to
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES | 333

[Page 366]
meet a worker’s expectations and prevent job dissatisfaction.
Figure 7.6 illustrates Herzberg’s two-factor the ory. Note that motiv ation f actors (such as promotion
opportunities) relate to the nature of the w ork itself and the w ay the emp loyee performs it. Hygiene f actors
(such as physical working conditions) relate to the environment in which it’s performed.

334 | 7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES

[Page 367]
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES | 335

[Page 368]
Figure 7.6: Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory—poor hygiene factors will increase
job dissatisfaction, while good motivators will increase satisfaction. [See image
description.]

Let’s start with h ygiene f actors. Are salaries reasonab le? What about w orking c onditions? Does each
accountant have his or her own workspace, or are they crammed into tiny workrooms? Are they being properly
supervised, or are they left on their o wn to sink or swim? If h ygiene factors like these don’t me et employees’
expectations, they may be dissatisfied with their jobs.
Fixing problems related to hygiene factors may alleviate job dissatisfaction, but it won’t necessarily improve
anyone’s job satisfaction. To increase satisfaction (and motivate someone to perform better), you must address
motivation f actors. Is the w ork itself challenging and stimulating? Do emp loyees re ceive re cognition f or a
job well done? W ill the w ork that an ac countant has be en assigned help him or her to adv ance in the firm?
According to Herzberg, motiv ation re quires a tw ofold appro ach: eliminating “ dissatisfiers” and enhancing
satisfiers.
Expectancy Theory
If you were a manager, wouldn’t you like to know how your employees decide whether to work hard or goof
off? Wouldn’t it be nic e to kno w whether a p lanned rewards program will ha ve the desire d effect—namely,
motivating them to perform better in their jobs? These are the issues considered by psychologist Victor Vroom
in his e xpectancy theory, which proposes that emp loyees will w ork hard to earn rew ards that they v alue and
that they consider “attainable”.
As you can see from Figure 7.7, Vroom’s expectancy theory argues that an employee will be motivated to
exert a high level of effort to obtain a reward under three conditions: If the employee
• believes that his or her efforts will result in acceptable performance.
• believes that acceptable performance will lead to the desired reward.
• values the reward.
Figure 7.7: Vroom’s Expectancy Theory. [See image description.]
336 | 7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES

[Page 369]
To apply expectancy theory to a real-world situation, let’s analyze an automobile-insurance company with one
hundred agents who work from a call centre. Assume that the firm pays a base salary of $2,000 a month, p lus
a $200 commission on each policy sold above ten policies a month. In terms of expectancy theory, under what
conditions would an agent be motivated to sell more than ten policies a month?
The agent w ould have to believ e that his or her eff orts would result in po licy sales (that, in other w ords,
there’s a positiv e link betw een effort and perf ormance). The agent w ould have to be c onfident that if he or
she sold more than ten po licies in a giv en month, there w ould inde ed be a bonus (a positiv e link betw een
performance and reward). The $200 bonus per policy would have to be of value to the agent.
Now let’s alter the sc enario slightly. Say that the c ompany raises pric es, thus making it harder to sell the
policies. Ho w will agents ’ motiv ation be aff ected? Ac cording to e xpectancy the ory, motiv ation will suff er.
Why? Because agents may be less confident that their efforts will lead to satisfactory performance. What if the
company introduces a po licy whereby agents get bonuses only if buy ers don’t c ancel policies within ninety
days? Now, agents ma y be less c onfident that they’ll get bonuses ev en if they do sell more than ten po licies.
Motivation will decrease because the link between performance and reward has been weakened. Finally, what
will happen if bonuses are cut from $200 to $25? Ob viously, the reward would be of less value to agents, and,
again, motivation will suff er. The message of e xpectancy theory, then, is f airly clear: managers should off er
rewards that emp loyees value, set perf ormance levels that they c an reach, and ensure a strong link betw een
performance and reward.
Equity Theory
What is the equity theory of motivation? The equity theory of motivation is the idea that what an individual
receives for their w ork has a dire ct effect on their motiv ation. When app lied to the w orkplace, it means an
individual will generally aim to create a balance between what they give to the organization compared to what
they get in return.1
Equity theory was developed by John Stacey Adams, and y ou can read more about E quity theory in this
article.
Let’s review this example. What if you spent thirty hours working on a class report, did everything you were
supposed to do, and handed in an excellent assignment (in your opinion)? Your roommate, on the other hand,
spent about five hours and put ev erything together at the last minute. Y ou know, moreover, that he ignore d
half the re quirements and nev er even ran his assignment through a spell-che cker. A w eek later, y our teacher
returns the reports. You get a C grade and y our roommate gets a B+. In all likelihood, y ou’ll feel that you’ve
been treated unfairly relative to your roommate.
According to Figure 7.8, the Equity Theory, your reaction makes sense. The E quity Theory of motivation
1. Indeed Editorial Team. (2024, August 15). A guide to equity theory of motivation. Indeed.
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES | 337

[Page 370]
focuses on our perc eptions of ho w fairly we’re treated relative to others. App lied to the w ork environment,
this the ory proposes that emp loyees analyze their c ontributions or job inputs (hours w orked, e ducation,
experience, work performance) and their rew ards or job outc omes (salary, bonus, promotion, re cognition).
Then they c reate a c ontributions/rewards ratio and c ompare it to those of other pe ople. The b asis of
comparison can be any one of the following:
• Someone in a similar position
• Someone holding a different position in the same organization
• Someone with a similar occupation
• Someone who shares certain characteristics (such as age, education, or level of experience)
• Oneself at another point in time
Figure 7.8: Equity Theory by John Stacey Adams. [See image description.]
338 | 7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES

[Page 371]
When individuals perceive that the ratio of their contributions to rewards is comparable to that of others, they
perceive that they’re being treate d fairly or equitably; when they perceive that the ratio is out of b alance, they
perceive inequity. Occasionally, people will perceive that they’re being treate d better than others. More often,
however, they conclude that others are being treated better (and that they themselves are being treated worse).
This is what y ou concluded when y ou saw your grade in the previous e xample. You’ve calculated your ratio
of contributions (hours w orked, research and writing skills) to rew ards (project grade), c ompared it to y our
roommate’s ratio, and concluded that the two ratios are out of balance.
What will an emp loyee do if he or she perc eives an ine quity? The individual might try to bring the
ratio into b alance, either b y de creasing inputs (w orking fewer hours, not taking on additional tasks) or b y
increasing outputs (asking for a raise). If this strategy fails, an employee might complain to a supervisor, transfer
to another job , lea ve the organization, or rationalize the situation (e.g., de ciding that the situation isn’t so
bad after all). E quity the ory advises managers to f ocus on treating w orkers fairly, espe cially in determining
compensation, which is, naturally, a common basis of comparison.
Self-Check Exercise: Motivational Theories Quiz
Check your understanding of employee motivation. Try the short quiz below.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=255#h5p-16
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.5: M aslow’s Hierarchy of Ne eds” is adapte d from Chapter 11: M otivating Emp loyees in NSCC
Fundamentals of Business, © Pamplin College of Business and Virginia Tech Libraries, licensed under CC BYNC-SA.
“Figure 7.6: Herzberg’s Two-Factor theory: Poor hygiene factors will increase job dissatisfaction, while good
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES | 339

[Page 372]
motivators will increase satisfaction” is reused from Levels of management.
CC BY 4.0.
“Figure 7.7: V room’s Expe ctancy The ory” is reuse d from Expectancy the ory.
licensed CC BY 4.0.
“Figure 7.8: Equity Theory by John Stacey Adams” is reused from Equity theory,
licensed CC BY 4.0, and includes “Scales of Justice” by Karen Arnold from Public Domain Pictures (CC0).
Image descriptions
Figure 7.5
A three-column diagram listing M aslow’s Hierarchy of Ne eds in the first c olumn, and associating each lev el
with specific with aspects of personal and professional fulfillment, as outlined in the table below.
Maslow’s Hierarchy of
Needs Personal Fulfillment Professional Fulfillment
Highest: Self-Actualization Creative success and
achievement
Challenging work, leadership, professional
achievement
Esteem Status and respect Authority, titles, recognition
Social Family and friendships Team membership and social activities
Safety Financial stability Seniority/job security
Lowest: Physiological Food and shelter Salary
[back to figure]
Figure 7.6
A pyramid showing the thre e levels of management and tasks associate d with each lev el in bullet points. At
the bottom of the pyramid is an area in beige f or the First-line Managers, with four bullet points: Coordinate
activities, supervise emp loyees, report to middle managers, and be in volved in da y-to-day operations. The
middle section of the pyramid is in orange with the heading Middle M anagers, with the following four bullet
points under the heading: Alloc ate resourc es, o versee first-line managers; report to top management; and
develop and imp lement activities. The top se ction of the p yramid is in burnt orange and represents the T op
Managers, with three bullet points associated with this section: Set objectives, scan the environment, and plan
and make decisions.
[back to figure]
340 | 7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES

[Page 373]
Figure 7.7
A flo wchart illustrating the c omponents of motiv ation. It c onsists of thre e re ctangular bo xes aligne d
horizontally, each outline d in orange. The bo xes are sep arated b y orange p lus signs. At the top , the w ord
“MOTIVATION” is centered in bold black uppercase letters. The first box on the left is labelle d “EFFORT”
with the te xt belo w stating, “Emp loyees believ e that eff ort will produc e an ac ceptable perf ormance.” The
middle box is labelled “PERFORMANCE” with the text, “Employees believe that acceptable performance will
earn them the desired reward.” The rightmost box is labelled “REWARD,” and it reads, “Employees value the
offered reward.”
[back to figure]
Figure 7.8
A b lack silhouette of a b alanced sc ale with “job inputs ” abo ve the left side and “job outc omes” on the
right. The job inputs liste d on the left side of the sc ale include e ducation, experience, hours w orked, work
performance and the job outc omes listed on the right side of the sc ale include salary, promotions, and bonus
recognition.
[back to figure]
7.8: MOTIVATING EMPLOYEES | 341

[Page 374]
Figure 7.9: Management function—control process.
[See image description.]
7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH
FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT
Controlling involves ensuring that performance does not deviate from standards. You can think of the control
function as a five-step process. (Refer to Figure 7.9.)
1. Set the standards by which performance will
be measured. Performance standards are often
stated in monetary terms, such as revenue,
costs, or profits, but may also be stated in
other terms, such as units produced, number
of defective products, or levels of quality or
customer service.
2. Measure the performance.
3. Compare the actual performance against the
standards and identify any deviations from the
standards.
4. Determine the reasons for the deviations.
5. Take corrective action if needed.
Performance can be measure d in sev eral ways. Some measures of perf ormance include financial statements,
sales reports, production results, customer satisf action, and f ormal performance appraisals. M anagers at all
levels engage in the managerial function of controlling to some degree.
The managerial function of c ontrolling should not be c onfused with c ontrol in the beha vioural or
manipulative sense. This function does not imp ly that managers should attempt to c ontrol or manipulate
the personalities, v alues, attitudes, or emotions of their subordinates. Instead, this function of management
concerns the manager’s ro le in taking ne cessary actions to ensure that the w ork-related activities of
subordinates are c onsistent with and c ontribute to ward the ac complishment of organizational and
departmental objectives.
Effective c ontrolling re quires the e xistence of p lans, sinc e p lanning pro vides the ne cessary perf ormance
standards or objectives. Controlling also requires a clear understanding of where responsibility f or deviations
from standards lies. Two traditional control techniques are budget and performance audits. An audit involves
an examination and verification of records and supporting documents. A budget audit provides information
about where the organization is with respe ct to what w as planned or budgete d for, whereas a performance
342 | 7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 375]
audit might try to determine whether the figures reporte d are a refle ction of actual perf ormance. Although
controlling is often thought of in terms of financial c riteria, managers must also c ontrol production and
operations proc esses, proc edures for the deliv ery of servic es, c ompliance with c ompany po licies, and man y
other activities within the organization.
The Importance of Controls
Project controls provide information that allows managers to make informed and timely decisions that prevent
project risks. A manager must keep things on track and within scope throughout the project. Without a project
control process, it’s difficult to answer important questions about the project, which may impact or complicate
project success.
Some reasons why projects might go off track without project controls include:1
• People: Without project controls, questions may arise about who is available to work on a project, who
is in charge of which roles and responsibilities, and who should take ownership of specific tasks during
project development.
• Quality: The project control process ensures that expectations are met, items in every project phase are
complete, and everything works along the way.
• Cost: When the project cost isn’t controlled, unforeseen fees may occur because of changes from
stakeholders or miscalculations during project planning.
• Time: Monitoring project time prevents issues like schedule delays, shifting priorities, and clashes in
resources, which can lead to unsatisfactory project results.
Through the c ontrol process, managers c an catch up when things don’t go as p lanned and quickly c orrect
course to keep the project on track.
Benchmarking
Benchmarking could be considered a specialized kind of control activity. Rather than controlling a particular
aspect of perf ormance (sa y, def ects f or a spe cific product), benchmarking aims to impro ve a firm’s o verall
performance. The proc ess of benchmarking involves c omparisons to other organizations ’ practic es and
processes with the objective of learning and improvement in both efficiency and effectiveness.
Benchmarking exercises can be conducted in a number of ways:
1. Team Asana. (2025, January 18). 5 project controls and where to implement them. Asana.
7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 343

[Page 376]
• Organizations often monitor publicly available information to keep tabs on the competition. Annual
reports, news articles, and other sources are monitored closely in order to stay aware of the latest
developments. In academia, universities and colleges often use published ranking tables to see how their
programs compare on student satisfaction, salaries of graduates, and other important criteria.
• Organizations may also work directly with companies in unrelated industries in order to compare those
functions of the business which are similar. A manufacturer of aircraft would not likely have a great deal
in common with a company making engineered plastics, yet both have common functions such as
accounting, finance, information technology, and human resources. Companies can exchange ideas that
help each other improve efficiency, and often at a very low cost to either.
• In order to compare more directly with the competition without relying solely on publicly available
data, companies may enter into benchmarking consortia in which an outside consultant would collect
key data from all participants, anonymize it, and then share the results with all participants. Companies
can then gauge how they compare to others in the industry without revealing their own performance to
others.
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Lance McLellan
Lance McLellan
In his ro le as V ice President, Financing with the Business Dev elopment Bank of Canada (BDC), Lanc e
McLellan leads the South western Ontario teams in dev eloping sales and marketing strategies ne cessary to
achieve the bank’s objectives. He also works to optimize the productivity of the team and f oster relationships
with key stakeho lders both inside the b ank and in the c ommunity. His w ork also enc ompasses ensuring
compliance with business rules and the management, health, and gro wth of the lo an portf olio. He f eels
that talent management and dev elopment, as w ell as maintaining c ommunication that aligns with the
organization’s key strategies, are important elements that drive long-term success.
“As Vice President of Financing at BDC, I have the privilege of leading the Southwestern Ontario teams in
crafting strategic sales and marketing initiatives that support the growth and success of Canadian
344 | 7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 377]
entrepreneurs. My role is dynamic, encompassing the optimization of team productivity, fostering key
relationships within the bank and the community, and ensuring compliance with business rules. I am
passionate about nurturing and developing talent, empowering individuals to reach their full potential and
driving our collective success. Maintaining effective communication that aligns with the organization’s core
strategies is also crucial. Every day brings new challenges and opportunities, and that’s what keeps me excited
about this field.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Lanc e M cLellan. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Tanya Golesic
Tanya Golesic
Tanya Go lesic is an ac complished business e xecutive and the Chief Ex ecutive Officer of M ackage, a luxury
lifestyle brand. W ith an impressiv e b ackground in the f ashion industry , she has held v arious prominent
positions throughout her career. Before joining Mackage, Golesic served as the President of Jimm y Choo, the
renowned British footwear brand under Capri Holdings.
During her tenure at Jimm y Choo, spanning five years, Golesic revitalized the brand and brought f orth a
new era of modern luxury . She successfully repositioned the brand, elev ating its image and o verseeing several
lucrative collaborations, including partnerships with Off White and Timberland. Additionally , as part of the
executive team, Go lesic p layed a piv otal ro le in orchestrating the sale of Jimm y Choo to Capri Ho ldings,
demonstrating her exceptional management skills amidst a challenging global market.
Prior to her time at Jimm y Choo, Golesic held key leadership ro les in esteemed fashion houses. She serv ed
as the Chief Commercial Offic er at Canada Goose, further enhancing her e xpertise in the luxury market.
Additionally, she held the position of Senior V ice President at M arc Jacobs (LVMH) and V ice President of
7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT | 345

[Page 378]
Sales and Planning at Ralp h Lauren, sho wcasing her e xtensive experience and c omprehensive understanding
of the industry.
Beyond her prof essional ac complishments, Go lesic is activ ely in volved in the field of e ducation. She
currently serves on the board of the Zagreb School of Economics and Management, contributing her expertise
and insights to the academic community.
In her current role as CEO of Mackage, Golesic remains dedicated to driving the brand’s global expansion,
both in retail and e-c ommerce. She p laces a strong emp hasis on inno vation and deliv ering an e xceptional
customer experience. Guided by the thre e pillars of luxury , destinations, and spe cialists, Golesic ensures that
Mackage continues to thrive as a premier luxury lifestyle brand.
“Building dynamic teams is without a doubt the key to our brand’s success as well as my success as a CEO. In
2024, I had the opportunity to lead my team in crafting our largest brand campaign, both product and
marketing, in a year of global uncertainty and change.
As the daughter of Croatian immigrants, I learned the importance of family, respect and hard work, which
translates to respect, trust and collaboration. If you have these three pillars as your foundation in business and
life, success will follow.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © T anya Go lesic. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
Media Attributions
“Figure 7.9: Management Function: Control Process” is reused from The control process,
Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0..
Image descriptions
Figure 7.9
A numbere d list of the Contro l Proc ess. From 1 to 5 the steps are: 1) Set the standard b y which the
performance will be measure d. 2) M easure performance. 3) Comp are actual perf ormance with the standard
and identify any deviations from the standard. 4) Determine the reasons f or the deviation. 5) Take corrective
action if needed.
[back to figure]
346 | 7.9: CONTROLLING — THE FOURTH FUNCTION OF MANAGEMENT

[Page 379]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. The four functions of management—planning, organizing, leading and controlling—serve
as the pillars that allow organizations to meet their goals.
2. Efficiency is using the least possible amount of resources to get work done,
whereas effectiveness is the ability to produce a desired result.
3. Planning is the function of management that involves setting objectives and determining a
course of action for achieving those objectives.
4. There are three levels of management: top managers, middle managers, and first-line
managers. Top-level managers set objectives, scan the business environment, and plan
and make decisions that affect the overall health of the organization. Middle-level
managers allocate resources, oversee first-line managers, report to top-level managers and
develop and implement activities. First-line managers (also referred to as customer-facing
or front-line) coordinate activities, supervise employees, report to middle managers, and are
involved in day-to-day operations.
5. Decision-making is the action or process of thinking through possible options and selecting
one.
6. Managerial skills include technical skills, interpersonal skills, conceptual skills,
communication skills, time-management skills, and decision-making skills.
7. Strategic planning involves analyzing competitive opportunities and threats, as well as the
strengths and weaknesses of the organization, and then determining how to position the
organization to compete effectively in its environment.
8. Understanding of the four stages of the industry life cycle, which includes expansion, peak,
contraction, and trough and industry dynamics, informs management’s investment decisions
and risk management strategies. External factors that affect a business are often analyzed
through a PEST analysis.
9. The strategic planning process begins by identifying the purpose of the company. After
CHAPTER REVIEW | 347

[Page 380]
that comes the mission statement. Followed by identifying core values; assessing the
company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats; establishing goals and
objectives; and developing and implementing tactical and operational plans to achieve goals
and objectives.
10. SMART Goals are specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-based.
11. Tactical planning is intermediate-range (one to three years) planning that is designed to
develop relatively concrete and specific means to implement the strategic plan. Middle-level
managers often engage in tactical planning.
12. Operational planning generally assumes the existence of organization-wide or sub-unit
goals and objectives and specifies ways to achieve them. Operational planning is short-range
(less than a year) planning designed to develop specific action steps that support strategic
and tactical plans. First-level managers engage in operational planning.
13. Contingency and Crisis Planning are plans for what actions to take when things go
wrong. Perhaps your plans were flawed, or maybe something in the environment shifted
unexpectedly. Successful managers anticipate and plan for the unexpected.
14. A business environment analysis is a systematic process that evaluates the internal and
external factors impacting a business.
15. PEST is the term used for an external environment scan, whereby a business collects and
analyzes data on the political, economic, social, and technological aspects of the business
environment in which it operates.
16. A SWOT analysis is an examination of the internal and external factors that impact the
organization and its strategies. Generally, the internal factors are strengths and weaknesses;
the external factors are opportunities and threats.
17. A competitor analysis in business involves examining similar brands in the same industry
to gain insight into other companies’ offerings, brands, sales, and marketing approaches.
18. Organizing is the process of coordinating and allocating a firm’s resources in order to carry
out its plans. Organizing includes developing a structure for the people, positions,
departments, and activities within the firm.
19. Businesses use organizational charts to depict the reporting structure within the
organization. Building an organizational structure engages managers in two activities: job
specialization (dividing tasks into jobs) and departmentalization (grouping jobs into
units).
20. A divisional organizational structure is a type of organizational structure where a
company is divided into independent divisions that operate like their own companies within
the larger organization. Each division has its own resources, teams, and responsibilities.
348 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 381]
Product divisions structure a company based on its product lines. Customer divisions
structure the company based on the needs of the customers. Process divisions structure the
company based on the processes needed to create the product or service. Geographical
divisions structure the company to enable more effective responses to customers in each
region.
21. Leaders provide focus and direction to others and motivate them to achieve organizational
goals. Regardless of position, a leader can be anyone in an organization who can influence
others to act or follow, often by their own choice.
22. Managers are designated leaders according to the organizational structure, but may need to
use negative consequences or coercion to achieve change.
23. There are four basic leadership styles: Autocratic, Democratic, Transformational, and Freerein.
24. Autocratic leaders are directive leaders, allowing for very little input from subordinates.
25. A democratic style of leadership encompasses a more participative style where leaders use
a consensual, consultative style. Democratic leaders solicit input from all members of the
group and then allow the group members to make the final decision through a voting
process. Consensual leaders encourage discussion about issues and then require that all
parties involved agree to the final decision. Consultative leaders confer with subordinates
before making a decision, but retain the final decision-making authority.
26. Transformational leadership is a leadership style that can inspire positive changes in
those who follow.
27. Free-rein or laissez-faire (French for “leave it alone”) leadership include managers who turn
over all authority and control to subordinates.
28. Effective leaders recognize employee growth and use situational leadership, selecting a
leadership style that matches the maturity and competency levels of those completing the
tasks.
29. Intrinsic motivation is when motivation comes from within; in other words, a person has it
within themselves to be, stay, or become motivated.
30. Extrinsic motivation is when motivation comes from external factors; in other words, a
person needs an incentive to be, stay, or become motivated.
31. Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs Theory is the idea that we need to satisfy lower-level
needs before we move to the other levels; once we have satisfied the need(s) at the more
basic level, we move on to the next level as the previous one no longer satisfies us. There are
five levels of needs (from lowest to highest): Physiological, Safety, Social, Esteem, and SelfActualization.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 349

[Page 382]
32. Herzberg’s Two-factor Theory includes motivation factors and hygiene factors.
Motivation factors are strong contributors to job satisfaction whereas hygiene factors are
factors that are not strong contributors to satisfaction but that must be present to meet a
worker’s expectations and prevent job dissatisfaction.
33. Expectancy Theory of motivation, developed by Victor Vroom, argues that an employee
will be motivated to exert a high level of effort to obtain a reward under three conditions: the
employee (1) believes that his or her efforts will result in acceptable performance, (2) believes
that acceptable performance will lead to the desired reward, and (3) values the reward.
34. The Equity Theory of motivation is the idea that what an individual receives for their work
directly affects their motivation.
35. Controlling involves ensuring that performance does not deviate from standards. The
control function has five steps: 1) Set performance standards and goals, 2) Measure
performance, 3) Compare, 4) Take corrective action if needed, and 5) Use information gained.
Through the control process, managers can catch up when things don’t go as planned and
quickly correct course to keep the project on track.
36. The process of benchmarking involves comparisons to other organizations’ practices and
processes with the objective of learning and improvement in both efficiency and
effectiveness.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 7: Management and Leadership [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Your Leadership Style. What’s your leadership style? Try this Leadership Style Quiz to find
350 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 383]
out. Consider past experiences where you have had an opportunity to lead a project or lead
a group of people on a specific task. Did the quiz results align with your past experiences?
Did you learn something new about yourself?
2. Famous CEOs. Use the Internet to research one of these famous leaders: Bill Gates, Elon
Musk, or Steve Jobs (or another if assigned by your professor). What leadership style were
they known for? How did they motivate their teams? What type of power did they have?
Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
3. Mission, Values, Strategy. Use the Internet to research a company, for example, X Corp
(formerly Twitter), Google, Amazon, or others and locate the company’s mission statement.
What values does this company share with the public? What strategy does it use to reach its
goals and objectives? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
4. Manager Wanted. Use the Internet to search for a job advertisement for a management
role. What sort of skills and qualifications is the company looking for? What sort of
leadership skills does the position require? Share your findings with your class and/or
professor.
5. Management Trends. Use the Internet to research trends that are happening today that
affect managers and leaders. Locate a specific story or article and summarize it. Which
management skills would you need to address this trend? Which management function is
most affected by this trend? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
6. Create an Organizational Chart. Try using a software tool that provides you with free
templates, such as SmartDraw (PowerPoint has these too), to create an organizational chart
for your college or university. You may need to conduct research on your institution’s website
first. How did you do? Did you depict most of the reporting structure? What type of
organizational structure does your school have? Share your chart with a partner and/or
professor.
7. Conduct a SWOT Analysis. Conduct a SWOT Analysis for your college or university (or
other company as assigned by your professor). Use a free software tool such as SmartDraw
(or another) to help you do this task. Try to have at least four points under each of the SWOT
parts. What opportunities did you identify? What threats did you identify? Was there
anything that surprised you? Suggest various ways by which your school could take
advantage of these opportunities by using its strengths, and various ways by which your
school could protect itself from threats and overcome its weaknesses. Share your results
with a partner and/or your professor.
8. Conduct a PEST Analysis. Conduct a PEST, PESTEL, or PESTLE Analysis for your college or
university (or other company as assigned by your professor). Use a free software tool such as
CHAPTER REVIEW | 351

[Page 384]
Lucidspark (or another) to help you do this task. Try to have at least two points under each
of the PEST, PESTEL, and PESTLE categories. What economic changes are happening that
might affect your institution? What political or legal changes are happening that might affect
your institution? Was there anything that surprised you? Share your results with a partner
and/or your professor.
9. Managerial Skills Assessment. Search the Internet to find a free quiz or assessment that
will assess your managerial skills. You may wish to complete a time-management,
communication, or interpersonal skills assessment. Managers also need a strong emotional
intelligence (EQ) and they should have some understanding of cultural intelligence (CQ). Your
professor may assign a specific quiz for you to complete, or you can locate one on your own.
Identify the skills you have now and the skills you need to develop. Then you can make a
plan for learning in the areas you need to strengthen.
10. Research a Leader. Use the Internet to research a specific leader you admire or respect.
What type of power does this leader have? What is their leadership style? What
accomplishments is this leader known for? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
11. SMART Goals. Use this online AI SMART Goals Generator (or another). Assume you operate
a pet store, and you want to generate some SMART goals for your business. You need more
customers, so how will you go about getting them? Set some goals. Your professor may
expand upon the scenario or provide you with a different scenario. Share your SMART
business goals with your class and/or professor.
12. Contingency Plans. Research the contingency plans your college or university have in place
(or other business as assigned by your professor). Consider a few different scenarios that the
institution would need to have contingency plans for. What did you discover? How would
these plans differ, if at all, from those of a local business in your area? Share your findings
with your class and/or professor.
13. Company Research. Choose a Global 500 company (or a specific company as assigned by
your professor) to research. Locate the name of the current CEO. How much money did this
CEO make last year? How long have they been in this position? Where did they work before
they came to this company? What leadership style does this CEO seem to have? How does
this company motivate its employees? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
14. Controlling Function. Conduct some research about your college or university to find out
what controls are in place to ensure curriculum is of a high standard? How does the
institution ensure that students learn the skills and gain the knowledge they need to get a
job and be successful in their careers? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
352 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 385]
Self-Check Exercise: Management and Leadership Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=262#h5p-17
Additional Resources
• SMART Goals: What They Are and How to Write Them
• SMART Goals – Quick Overview. YouTube Video.
• PESTEL Analysis. YouTube Video.
• What is a SWOT Analysis? Download a Free Template
• 14 Essential Business Metrics that Managers Often Track
• Famous CEOs: 40 Leaders Who Shaped Business History
• The 3 Levels of Management: Definition, Examples, and FAQs
• SWOT Analysis for Starbucks. YouTube Video.
• Motivating Your Team Using Herzberg’s Motivators and Hygiene Factors. YouTube Video.
• Expectancy Theory. YouTube Video.
• Vroom’s Expectancy Theory. YouTube Video.
• Five Steps in the Strategic Planning Process. YouTube Video.
• Porter’s Five Forces – A Practical Example. YouTube Video.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 353

[Page 386]
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
354 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 387]
CHAPTER 8: MARKETING
MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 8: MARKETING MANAGEMENT | 355

[Page 388]
356 | CHAPTER 8: MARKETING MANAGEMENT

[Page 389]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
In this chapter, you will explore the foundational concepts and strategies of marketing, from defining key terms
to understanding the intricacies of the marketing mix, target market identification, and effective branding. By
the end of this chapter, you’ll have gained a working knowledge of marketing research, pricing strategies, and
promotional tools, including social media, to build lasting customer relationships.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to
1. Explain the core concepts and processes involved in marketing with a focus on consumer
behaviour.
2. Examine the evolution of the marketing concept and apply it to businesses in various
industries.
3. Explore the components of a marketing strategy, including the target market and marketing
mix, and their roles in strategic marketing planning.
4. Outline how marketers identify target markets for new products.
5. Identify the four Ps of the marketing mix.
6. Discuss three branding strategies.
7. Document the role of pricing strategies and place decisions in the marketing mix.
8. Demonstrate the tools used for promoting products.
9. Describe how companies attempt to retain customers and build relationships.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 357

[Page 390]
8.1: MARKETING AND CONSUMER
BEHAVIOUR
What Is Marketing?
When y ou c onsider the functional areas of business—ac counting, financ e, management, marketing, and
operations—marketing is the one y ou probably know the most about. After all, as a c onsumer and target of
all sorts of adv ertising messages, y ou’ve been on the re ceiving end of marketing initiativ es for most of y our
life. What y ou prob ably don’t appre ciate, ho wever, is the e xtent to which marketing f ocuses on pro viding
value to the customer. Ac cording to the Americ an Marketing Association, “ Marketing is the activity, set of
institutions, and proc esses for creating, communicating, delivering, and e xchanging offerings that ha ve value
for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.”1
1. American Marketing Association. (n.d.). Definition of marketing.
358 | 8.1: MARKETING AND CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR

[Page 391]
Marketing to the target segment
In other words, marketing isn’t just advertising and selling. Marketing encompasses every part of a plan to turn
a prospective consumer into a happ y and satisfied customer. It includes ev erything from market research to
advertising. The go al of marketing is to c onvince a person that y our product is w orth investing in, estab lish
brand loyalty and increase overall sales. It includes everything that organizations do to satisfy customer ne eds,
including:
• Coming up with a product and defining its features and benefits
• Setting its price
• Identifying its target market
• Making potential customers aware of it
• Getting people to buy it
• Delivering it to people who buy it
• Managing relationships with customers after it has been delivered
Think about a typic al business—a loc al mo vie theatre, f or e xample. It’s eas y to se e ho w the person who
decides what mo vies to sho w is in volved in marketing; they sele ct the product to be so ld. It’s ev en easier to
see ho w the person who puts ads in the newsp aper w orks in marketing; they are in charge of adv ertising,
8.1: MARKETING AND CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR | 359

[Page 392]
making people aware of the product and getting them to buy it. What about the ticket seller and the person
behind the c ounter who gets the popc orn and soda, or the proje ctionist? Are they marketing the business?
Absolutely. The purpose of every job in the theatre is satisfying customer needs, and as we’ve seen, identifying
and satisfying customer needs is what marketing is all about. M arketing is a team effort involving everyone in
the organization.
If ev eryone is responsib le f or marketing, c an the a verage organization do without an official marketing
department? Not necessarily: most organizations have marketing departments in which individuals are actively
involved in some marketing-relate d activity—product design and dev elopment, pricing, promotion, sales,
and distribution. As spe cialists in identifying and satisfying customer ne eds, members of the marketing
department manage, plan, organize, lead, and control the organization’s overall marketing efforts.
Consumer Behaviour and Decision-Making
Knowledge of consumer buying behaviour and the influences on the consumer’s buying decision are critical to
effective marketing.
The consumer buying process involves five steps:
1. Need recognition (first, you realize you need or want something)
2. Information search (depending on the item, you may do a short search or an extensive search)
3. Evaluation of alternatives (you consider where you will buy the item, getting the best deal, best quality,
meeting your needs, etc.)
4. Purchase or no-purchase decision (maybe you buy, maybe you don’t at this time)
5. Post-purchase evaluation (you consider whether you enjoy the product, if it works as advertised, or if
you will return it, telling others about your experience, etc.)
The five-step consumer decision-making process is p art of a bro ader environmental context that influenc es
each step. Effective marketing attempts to help consumers with their information search and the evaluation of
alternatives, but there are other ma jor influences on a consumer’s buying decision. These influences are listed
below:
• Socio-cultural influences: Culture, subculture, social class, family, and peers.
• Psychological influences: Motivation, perception, attitudes, and learning.
• Situational influences: Physical and social surroundings, type of product purchased.
• Personal influences: Age, economic situation, lifestyle, and personality.
• Marketing mix influences: Product, price, place, and promotion.
360 | 8.1: MARKETING AND CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR

[Page 393]
Media Attributions
“Marketing, Customer, Woman image” by geralt, used under the Pixabay license.
8.1: MARKETING AND CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR | 361

[Page 394]
8.2: THE MARKETING CONCEPT
The marketing c oncept is a business p hilosophy espouse d b y businesses that f ocus on achieving
organizational success by researching and understanding the ne eds and w ants of their customers in order to
deliver value more effectively than their competitors.1
The nature of marketing has evolved over the years.2
• The Industrial Era (1860s–1920s). With the advent of new technologies, mass production became
possible for the first time, and factories could generate greater quantities of goods more efficiently than
ever before. Companies focused on manufacturing and selling as many products as possible. Products
were often marketed based on their durability, quality, and value for money. The auto manufacturer
Ford was among the first companies to benefit from the Industrial Revolution, thanks to the assembly
lines that made the production of their Model T automobile much more efficient and streamlined. This
allowed them to sell their cars for a lower price, making them more affordable for the average consumer.
Only a little was needed in terms of marketing or sales tactics during this era, as demand was high and
competition was scarce.
• The Sales Era (1920s–1940s). This was a time when more companies were competing for customers.
The main goal during the Sales Era was to sell as many units as possible. In most cases, neither customer
experience nor product or service quality was of much importance. Companies used eye-catching sales
promotions, radio commercials, and door-to-door sales to entice customers to make a purchase.
• The Marketing Era (1950s–1990s). This era was defined by a strong consumer orientation, where
businesses prioritized understanding and meeting the needs and preferences of specific customer groups.
The development of market research and consumer behaviour studies, including customer
segmentation, became essential tools. Marketing strategies began to rely on multiple channels,
emphasizing brand relationships, branding, and a growing awareness of social responsibility and ethical
practices. During this period, the 4Ps of marketing—product, price, place, and promotion—were
introduced, shaping the foundation of modern marketing. The focus shifted toward designing products
that truly reflected consumer demand.
• The Relationship Era (1990s–Present). This 1990s marked the rise of customer relationship
1. Sujan. (2024, August 8). What is a marketing concept? Definition, features, examples, and pros/cons. TheMBAins.
2. Sharma, A. (2024, October 14). 7 stages in the evolution of marketing: A journey through time. The Nextrack.
362 | 8.2: THE MARKETING CONCEPT

[Page 395]
management (CRM), where businesses began to personalize marketing efforts to build stronger
connections with individual consumers. The integration of technology became essential for managing
and enhancing customer interactions. With the emergence of social media, consumers gained a powerful
voice, enabling two-way communication between brands and their audiences. Advancements in
technology allowed companies to engage more personally with customers, creating deeper and more
meaningful relationships. Organizations began to recognize the value of long-term connections—not
only with customers but also with employees, suppliers, and business partners. Loyalty programs were
introduced to encourage repeat purchases and reward consistent engagement. Many companies also
began prioritizing social responsibility, recognizing that consumers are more likely to support brands
that actively contribute to their communities and reflect their values.
• The Digital and Social Era (2010s–Present). This era continues to see the rise of new ways for
businesses and consumers to communicate and share information through the Internet and social
media.
• The Sustainability and ESG Era (2010s–Present). During this time, businesses continue to
prioritize ethical and sustainable practices, emphasizing green energy, ethical sourcing, and community
impact. They aim to balance customer satisfaction, profitability, and societal well-being. Sustainability is
integrated into core operations, addressing climate change, fair labour, and social responsibility.
The key princip le of the marketing c oncept is its c onsumer-centric approach—putting the customer at the
heart of all business de cisions. This means that ev eryone within the organization p lays a ro le in me eting
customer needs while also maintaining a b alance with the c ompany’s goals. To succeed long-term, a business
must not only satisfy its customers but also remain profitable, ensuring its ability to sustain and grow.
Examples of Companies Applying the Marketing Concept
Lululemon Athletica Inc. 3
Established in 1998 in Vancouver, Canada, Lululemon Athletica has grown from a small yoga
3. Pereira, D. (2025, January 8). Lululemon marketing strategy. The Business Model Analyst.
8.2: THE MARKETING CONCEPT | 363

[Page 396]
apparel company to a global leader in the athletic wear industry. A significant driver of this success
has been the Lululemon marketing strategy, which combines innovative approaches with a deep
understanding of its audience. By utilizing methods that emphasize community connection,
exceptional product quality, and experiential engagement, the company has fueled its growth and
reshaped consumer expectations within the activewear market.
Lululemon’s marketing goals and objectives are designed to facilitate various efforts such as
community engagement, building a strong brand identity, and driving long-term growth in the
competitive activewear market. Below are some of the objectives that guide the brand’s marketing
strategy:
• Empower Customers through Wellness and Lifestyle: Lululemon prioritizes creating
products and experiences that promote mindfulness, fitness, and personal growth, aligning
with its mission to inspire a healthier, more balanced lifestyle.
• Enhance Brand Loyalty and Community Engagement: Through initiatives like local
events, partnerships with fitness instructors, and training staff as “educators,” Lululemon
nurtures meaningful connections with its customers, fostering loyalty and a sense of
belonging.
• Expand Product Offerings to Broaden Appeal: By diversifying its range to include
running gear, swimwear, and men’s apparel, Lululemon ensures it meets the evolving needs
of a wider audience while maintaining its reputation for quality.
• Leverage Premium Experiences and Sophistication: From stylish store designs to
curated social media content, Lululemon emphasizes a sense of luxury and exclusivity,
enhancing its brand image and customer appeal.
• Price: Lululemon employs a value-based pricing strategy, reflecting the premium quality of
its products. While its pricing is higher, the brand justifies this by emphasizing innovative
fabric technologies, exceptional durability, and a focus on sustainability.
These objectives underscore Lululemon’s commitment to innovation, connection, and excellence,
fueling its continued success.
Shopify 4
4. Shastri, A. (2024, September 4). In-depth marketing strategy of Shopify-IIDE. IIDE.
364 | 8.2: THE MARKETING CONCEPT

[Page 397]
Shopify, headquartered in Ottawa, Ontario, and founded by Tobias Lutke, provides tools for
merchants to set up and maintain online stores, helping them compete against Amazon.
• Community Building: Shopify fosters a community of entrepreneurs through its forums
and events. This allows merchants to learn from each other, share experiences, and discover
new strategies, all while contributing to the overall success of the Shopify ecosystem.
• Customer-Centric Solutions: Shopify has placed a strong focus on listening to customer
feedback, which has led to continuous improvements and the introduction of new features.
For example, Shopify introduced “Shopify Payments” and “Shopify Capital” to make it easier
for small businesses to accept payments and access financing, based directly on customer
requests for more streamlined, all-in-one services. Positive customer and merchant
experiences have contributed to the company’s growth.
• Profitability: Shopify’s subscription-based model, combined with additional fees for
services like payment processing, has fueled rapid growth while providing a reliable and
consistent revenue stream. The company has continuously expanded its platform by offering
advanced tools for marketing, logistics, and customer analytics, empowering users to scale
their own businesses while simultaneously driving Shopify’s ongoing revenue growth.
• Distribution Channels: Strong distribution channels and dealer community promote the
company’s products and provide training to the sales team. These strengths are crucial
elements of the Shopify marketing strategy, ensuring sustained growth and market
presence.
Shopify carved a niche by empowering entrepreneurs with user-friendly tools, insightful content,
and strategic partnerships. Shopify has cultivated a thriving e-commerce ecosystem through
targeted campaigns and a commitment to user education. This focus on user success ensures
Shopify remains a leader in the ever-evolving world of online sales.
8.2: THE MARKETING CONCEPT | 365

[Page 398]
8.3: MARKETING STRATEGY
A marketing strategy consists of two major elements: the organization must determine its target market and
then develop a marketing mix to me et the ne eds of that market. The target market is the spe cific group of
consumers with similar ne eds and wants toward which a firm dire cts its marketing efforts. A target market
is the group of pe ople who are most likely to buy y our product or servic e. The marketing mix is the
combination of four factors, known as the “4Ps” of marketing. The 4Ps are designed to serve the target market
and include product, pric e, promotion, and p lace. A marketing strategy must not only define the target
market, but it must also define goals and outcomes, timelines, resources, and opportunities. For example, the
2021 census conducted by Statistics Canada state d that 6.2 million pe ople (more than one in six Canadians)
live in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA ). A business would want to segment several specific customer groups
to more effectively sell to its potential target markets living in the Toronto area.
There are five steps in the marketing planning process:1
1. Mission (understand the company’s mission and corporate objectives)
2. Situation Analysis (identify opportunities, SWOT analysis, PEST analysis, 5C analysis)
3. Marketing Strategy (define the target audience, set measurable goals, and develop a budget)
4. Marketing Mix (product development, pricing, place and distribution, promotion)
5. Implementation and Control (put plan into action, monitor results)
Strategic marketing planning involves setting goals and objectives, analyzing internal and external business
factors, product planning, implementation, and tracking y our progress. Consider App le, which has be en the
winner of the CMO Survey Award for Marketing Excellence for the past sixteen years.
1. Weller, J. (2017, June 23). The definitive guide to strategic marketing planning. Smartsheet.
366 | 8.3: MARKETING STRATEGY

[Page 399]
Apple is one of the most successful companies in the
world.
Here’s an example of the five steps of the
marketing planning process aligned to Apple
Inc., one of the most successful companies in
the world:
1. Mission: Apple is dedicated to making
innovative, high-quality products.
2. Situation Analysis: Apple’s
competitive advantage is driven by its
commitment to understanding
customer needs, focusing on the
products that are core to its mission,
and fostering a collaborative work
culture.
3. Marketing Strategy: Apple is usually first to the marketplace with new products, and
the company relies on brand loyalty from existing customers as a strategy when
launching new products and services.
4. Marketing Mix: While Apple offers a range of products, it values premium pricing and
relies on strict guidelines for distribution.
5. Implementation and Control: Each Apple product complements the others and works
within the same ecosystem, so customers tend to stay with the brand, creating loyal
consumers.
The strategic marketing process puts all the pieces together so that everything you do contributes to the success
of the business. Rather than executing haphazard activities and ideas, developing a solid plan that weaves goals
and tactics into a seamless experience is essential.
Media Attributions
“Apple inc, Mac, Apple store image” by matcuz, used under the Pixabay license.
8.3: MARKETING STRATEGY | 367

[Page 400]
8.4: TARGET MARKETS
Businesses earn profits by selling goods or providing services. It would be nice if everybody in the marketplace
were interested in your product, but if y ou tried to sell it to ev erybody, you’d probably spread your resources
too thin. You need to identify a spe cific group of c onsumers who should be p articularly interested in y our
product, who w ould have access to it, and who ha ve the means to buy it. This group represents y our target
market, and you need to aim your marketing efforts at its members.
Identifying Your Market
How do marketers identify target markets? First, they usually identify the o verall market f or their
product—the individuals or organizations that need a product and are able to buy it. This market can include
either or both of these two groups:
• A consumer market—buyers who want the product for personal use
• An industrial market—buyers who want the product for use in making other products
You might focus on only one market or both. A f armer, for example, might sell b lueberries to individuals on
the consumer market and, on the industrial market, to bakeries that will use them to make muffins and pies.
Segmenting the Market
The next step in identifying a target market is to divide the entire market into smaller portions, or market
segments—groups of potential customers with common characteristics that influence their buying decisions.
You can use a number of characteristics to segment a market, including demographic, geographic, behavioural,
and psychographic. Demographic and geographic segmentation are quite common. To read more about each
type of segmentation, review the examples below.
368 | 8.4: TARGET MARKETS

[Page 401]
Examples of Demographic, Geographic, Behavioural, and
Psychographic Segmentation
Let’s look at these types of segmentation in detail.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=276#h5p-18
Clustering Segments
Typically, marketers determine target markets b y c ombining, or “ clustering,” segmenting c riteria. What
characteristics does Starbucks loo k for when marketing its products? Thre e demographic variables come to
mind: age, geography, and income. Buyers are likely to be of any gender, ranging in age from about twenty-five
to forty (although college students, age d eighteen to twenty-four, are moving up in importanc e). Geography
is a f actor, as customers tend to liv e or w ork in cities or upsc ale suburban areas. Those with relativ ely high
incomes are willing to pay a premium for Starbucks specialty coffee, and so income, a socioeconomic factor, is
also important.
8.4: TARGET MARKETS | 369

[Page 402]
8.5: THE MARKETING MIX AND THE FIRST P
— PRODUCT
The Marketing Mix
After identifying a target market, your next step is to develop and implement a marketing program designed to
reach it. This program involves a combination of tools called the marketing mix, often referred to as the “4P’s”
of marketing:
1. Developing a product that meets the needs of the target market
2. Setting a price for the product
3. Distributing the product—getting it to a place where customers can buy it
4. Promoting the product—informing potential buyers about it
Let’s take Tim Hortons, a well-known Canadian brand, as an example to illustrate the
4Ps of marketing:
Product
Tim Hortons offers a wide range of products, including coffee, donuts, sandwiches, and other
baked goods. They also have seasonal items and limited-time offers to keep the menu fresh and
appealing. Their products are known for their quality and consistency, which helps maintain
customer loyalty.
Price
Tim Hortons adopts a competitive pricing strategy to attract a broad customer base. Their
prices are generally affordable, making their products accessible to many consumers. They also
offer value deals and combos to provide more options for budget-conscious customers.
Place
Tim Hortons has an extensive network of locations across Canada and internationally. They are
strategically placed in high-traffic areas such as shopping malls, airports, and busy street
370 | 8.5: THE MARKETING MIX AND THE FIRST P — PRODUCT

[Page 403]
corners. Additionally, they offer drive-thru services and have expanded their presence through
mobile apps and delivery services to reach customers conveniently.
Promotion
Tim Hortons uses various promotional strategies, including TV, radio, and social media
campaigns. They also engage in sponsorships and community events to enhance brand
visibility. Loyalty programs like the Tim Hortons Rewards program encourage repeat business
by offering points for purchases that can be redeemed for free items.
This combination of product quality, competitive pricing, strategic placement, and effective
promotion helps Tim Hortons maintain its strong market presence and customer loyalty.
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: The feature box on the 4Ps of Tim Hortons was created
with the assistance of Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based tool designed to generate text based on
user inputs. In accordance with the current guidance from Creative Commons, the content
created using Generative AI tools is shared under a CC1.0 Universal Deed.
There are other models use d f or the marketing mix. One of which is the SA VE model, which stands f or
Solution, Ac cess, Value, and E ducation. Unlike the initial 4Ps, this idea promotes and adv ertises different
attributes that fit w ell in toda y’s marketing industry . Solution replaces product, ac cess replaces place, value
replaces price, and education replaces promotion. SAVE could potentially be a modern adaptation or evolution
of this traditional framew ork.1
Another model is the 4Cs model, which stands f or Customer, Cost,
Convenience, and Communic ation. This is a c ontemporary marketing framew ork that e xpands on the
conventional 4Ps p aradigm. The 4Cs framew ork was proposed as a customer-c entric alternative to the 4Ps,
concentrating on the customer’s perspective and demands.2
We will focus on the 4Ps Marketing Mix for the time being.
The First P — Product
There are many things involved in product development. The first step starts with coming up with an idea. It’s
1. abs institute. (n.d.). The new marketing mix S.A.V.E.
2. VisoChart. (n.d.). Difference between 4Ps and 4Cs of marketing.
8.5: THE MARKETING MIX AND THE FIRST P — PRODUCT | 371

[Page 404]
important to remember that when it c omes to this first “P” of the marketing mix, the term “product“ refers
to both products and services.
New product development teams often consist of top management and specialists from sales and marketing,
research and dev elopment, manufacturing, and finance. This team will c onduct market research and gather
customer and employee feedback before formulating ideas for new products. The team will also ev aluate the
feasibility of ideas, consider the resources available, and identify risks. This group considers and plans new and
improved products following the seven stages of new product development:
1. Idea Generation (Idea formulation)
2. Idea Evaluation (Screening)
3. Concept Testing
4. Product Development
5. Testing and Execution
6. Post Development (Commercialization, Market Introduction)
7. Support and Maintenance
Product Life Cycle
The product lif e c ycle begins onc e a product is dev eloped. A product lif e c ycle is a the oretical model
describing a product’s sales and profits o ver the course of its lifetime. During this cycle, the product typically
goes through four stages: an introductory stage, a gro wth stage, a maturity stage, and a de clining stage. Refer
to Table 8.1 for a summary of the characteristics, marketing objectives, and strategies for each of the four stages
of a product’s life cycle.
372 | 8.5: THE MARKETING MIX AND THE FIRST P — PRODUCT

[Page 405]
Table 8.1: The product life cycle model
Characteristics Introduction Growth Maturity Decline
Sales Low sales Radically rising
sales Peak sales Declining sales
Costs High cost per
customer
High cost per
customer
Low cost per
customer Low cost per customer
Profits Negative Rising High Declining
Customers Innovators Innovators Middle majority Laggards
Competitors Few Growing number Stable number
beginning to decline Declining number
Marketing
Objectives
Create product
awareness and trial
Maximize market
share
Maximize profit
while defending
market share
Reduce expenditure
and milk the brand
Product Strategy Offer a basic product
Offer product
extensions,
services, and
warranty
Diversify brands and
models Phase out weak items
Price Strategy Charge cost-plus Price to penetrate
the market
Price to match or
beat competitors Cut prices
Distribution
Strategy
Build a selective
distribution
Build intensive
distribution
Build a more
intensive
distribution
Go selective; phase out
unprofitable outlets
Advertising
Strategy
Build product
awareness among
early adopters and
dealers
Build awareness
and interest in the
mass market
Stress brand
differences and
benefits
Reduce to the level
needed to retain
hard-core loyals
Sales Promotion
Strategy
Use heavy sales
promotion to entice
trial
Reduce to take
advantage of heavy
customer demand
Increase to
encourage brand
switching
Reduce to a minimal
level

8.5: THE MARKETING MIX AND THE FIRST P — PRODUCT | 373

[Page 406]
8.6: BRANDING
Brand strategy is “the entire e xperience your prospects and customers ha ve with your company, product or
service. Your brand strategy defines what you stand for, a promise you make, and the personality you convey.”1
Branding is an essential too l f or marketing. Consumers relate so strongly to brands that y ou c an sho w
them just the brand logo , and they c an recall everything they kno w about the brand. V isit the World’s Most
Recognizable Brand Logos on the Canva blog to see if you can recognize the company with its brand logo.

A collage showing the logos of brands that are popular worldwide
1. Marketingmo. (n.d). Marketing guides: Brand strategy.
374 | 8.6: BRANDING

[Page 407]
Below is a list of some brands that ha ve become so popular that they are use d to refer to common products.2

For example:
• Kleenex, which is a brand name, has become synonymous with facial tissues. It is often used to refer to
any type of facial tissue, regardless of the brand.
• The Q-Tips brand is often used when people refer to cotton swabs.
• You might think you are riding around on a Jet Ski, but if it’s not made by Kawasaki Heavy Industries,
it’s just a personal watercraft.
• Chapstick is a brand name of a lip balm produced by Pfizer.
• Xerox has been trying to stop people from calling photocopying “xeroxing” for years.
• Google is the world’s largest and most powerful search engine.
• What we refer to as a “Band-Aid” is actually a bandage. Band-Aid became a trademark of Johnson &
Johnson in 1920 and has dominated the wound care market ever since.
Self-Check Exercise: Popular Brands
Try this interactive exercise related to company brands. Using the cards in the exercise, try to
answer each question, then flip the card over to read the answer.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=281#h5p-19
2. Mertes, A. (2022, De cember 5). 34 br and na mes you casua lly use wit hout even rea lizing t hey’re br and na mes. Retrieved from
https://www.qualitylogoproducts.com/blog/brand-names-generic-terms/
8.6: BRANDING | 375

[Page 408]
Branding Strategies
Companies can adopt one of three major strategies for branding a product:3
1. With private branding (private labelling or store branding), a company makes a product and sells it to
a retailer who, in turn, resells it under its own name. A soft-drink maker, for example, might make cola
for Walmart to sell as its Sam’s Choice Cola.
2. With generic branding, the maker attaches no branding information to a product except a description
of its contents. Products are sold without a widely recognized brand name, often with plain packaging
and minimal marketing. Customers are often given a choice between a brand-name prescription drug
and a cheaper generic drug with the same formula.
3. With manufacturer branding, a company sells one or more products under its own brand names, such
as Apple, Nike, or Coca-Cola. Adopting a multiproduct-branding approach, it sells many products
under one brand name. Food-maker ConAgra sells soups, frozen treats, and complete meals under its
Healthy Choice label. Using a multi-branding approach, the company assigns different brand names to
products covering different segments of the market. Automakers often use multi-branding. The
Volkswagen group of brands also includes Audi and Lamborghini.
Refer to Table 8.2 for a comparison of differences between branding strategies.
Table 8.2: Key differences in branding strategies
Aspect Private
Branding
Generic
Branding
Manufacturer
Branding
Ownership Retailer No brand
owner focus Manufacturer
Cost
Positioning
Mid-tier or
budget-friendly Lowest price Mid to
premium
Marketing
Investment Moderate to low Minimal High
Examples
Kirkland
(Costco), Great
Value (Walmart)
Paracetamol
(the generic
version of
Tylenol or
Panadol)
Coca-Cola,
Nike
Branding is use d in hotels to allo w chains like M arriott, Hyatt, and Hilton to off er hotel brands that me et
3. Skripak, S. & Poff, R. (2020). Fundamentals of Business, 3rd edition. Pamplin College of Business. Virginia Tech Publishing.
376 | 8.6: BRANDING

[Page 409]
various customers ’ tra vel ne eds while still maintaining their lo yalty to the chain. The same customer who
would choose an Extende d Sta y hotel with a full kitchen when on a long-term assignment might sta y at a
convention hotel when attending a trade sho w, and then sta y in a resort property when tra velling with their
family. By segmenting diff erent types of hotel loc ations, amenities, room sizes and dé cor, hotel chains c an
meet the ne eds of a wide v ariety of tra vellers. In the p ast de cade, “soft” branding has be come common to
allow unique hotels to take adv antage of being p art of a chain reserv ation system and lo yalty program. F or
example, Marriott has over 100 affiliated independent hotels in its Autograph Collection. Loyalty programs are
heavily used in the hospitality industry , especially airlines and hotels, as p art of their Customer Relationship
Management programs. Lo yalty programs are often targete d at high-v alue business tra vellers with less pric e
sensitivity. They achieve loyalty status and perks while tra velling, as well as earning points to use f or personal
travel rewards. Once a lo yalty program member obtains elite status with signific ant associated perks such as
guaranteed room a vailability, airport club lounge ac cess, etc., the customer is much less likely to use other
brands.4
When consumers have a favourable experience with a product, it builds brand equity. If consumers are loyal
to it o ver time, it enjo ys brand lo yalty. To get an idea of ho w valuable brand e quity is, think f or a moment
about the effect of the name Dell on a product. When you have a positive experience with a Dell product—say,
a laptop or a printer—you come away with a positive opinion of the entire Dell product line and will probably
buy more Dell products. Ov er time, y ou ma y ev en dev elop brand lo yalty: y ou ma y pref er—or ev en insist
on—Dell products. Not surprisingly, brand loyalty can be extremely valuable to a company.
Each branding strategy suits spe cific market ne eds, allo wing businesses to c ater to v arying c onsumer
priorities, such as cost, trust in a brand, or exclusivity.
Packaging and Labelling
Packaging can influence a c onsumer’s decision to buy a product or p ass it up . Packaging gives customers a
glimpse of the product, and it should be designed to attract their attention, with consideration given to colour
choice, style of lettering, and many other details.
Labelling not only identifies the product but also provides information on the package contents: who made
it and where, or what risks are associated with it (such as being unsuitable for small children).
Packaging and labelling can provide many benefits for companies, including:5
• Advertising: Packaging and labelling can be used to convey an advertising message.
4. Skripak, S. & Poff, R. (2020). Fundamentals of Business, 3rd edition. Pamplin College of Business. Virginia Tech Publishing.
5. Chesshir, H. (2024, June 6). Benefits of utilizing custom packaging labels. Paramount Global.
8.6: BRANDING | 377

[Page 410]
• Consumer trust: Attractive packaging labels can help build trust in the product’s quality and contents.
• Product safety: Labels can help protect products and keep them safe.
• Product identification: Packaging and labelling can help consumers quickly identify a brand.
• Shipping efficiency: Clearly printed labels can help eliminate confusion during shipping.
• Competitive advantage: Packaging and labelling can help a company differentiate itself from
competitors.
Media Attributions
“Brands” by B. Jordan on Flickr; CC BY.
378 | 8.6: BRANDING

[Page 411]
8.7: THE 4 PS: PRICE AND PLACE
The Second P—Price
The second P in the f our Ps of marketing is pric e. Naturally, a company needs to price its products in a w ay
that allows it to operate profitably. However, pricing is far more complex than calculating the cost of goods and
adding on an additional amount that will let the business meet its desired profit margin.
Price is the only element of the marketing mix that dire ctly generates revenue for a company. It’s also the
most flexible element, and it’s important to continuously monitor and revise it.
When determining price, marketers consider a number of factors, including:
• Customer value: How much are customers willing to pay for the product?
• Competitors: What competitors are charging for similar products?
• Supply costs: What are the costs of supplying the product?
• Seasonal discounts: What discount should we offer and when?
• Business model: How does the price fit with the company’s business model?
Marketers may also use pricing strategies like:
• Cost-plus pricing: Adding a fixed percentage to the unit cost to determine the selling price
• Competitive pricing: Adjusting prices based on what competitors are doing
• Price skimming: Starting with a high price and then reducing it as customer volume increases
• Value-based pricing: Basing the price on how much customers are willing to pay
• Penetration pricing: Starting with a low price to build a customer base
• Dynamic pricing: Continually changing prices based on market forces like competitor pricing and
customer demand
8.7: THE 4 PS: PRICE AND PLACE | 379

[Page 412]
Authenticity and Indigenous Products
Cultural artistic expression revitalizes and reaffirms the heritage of Indigenous peoples in Canada.
The distribution of authentic arts and handicrafts is one way by which Indigenous populations can
preserve their cultural identity. A global marketplace for Indigenous arts, handicrafts, and tourism
has been built on the widespread interest in Indigenous cultures, which is a necessary tool for
alleviating socio-economic hardship. Due to this rise in popularity of Indigenous products, an entire
market segment has developed where inexpensive, inauthentic, and mass-produced items are
being marketed as Indigenous. As non-Indigenous companies commoditize culturally-appropriated
arts and handicrafts, they negatively impact authentic Indigenous producers. Kat Pasquach, the
owner of Culture Shock Jewelry, offers her insight into the differences between cultural
appropriation and appreciation. She further describes how the time, labour, and cultural expertise
of Indigenous products warrant the demand for higher prices. The reclamation of culturally
significant arts and handicrafts is a crucial endeavour; one that will lead to positive social, economic,
and cultural outcomes for Indigenous populations around the world.
Watch the Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business “Authenticity & Indigeneous Products” video.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=284
Transcript of “Authenticity & Indigeneous Products” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed caption available
in video player.
Source: “Authenticity & Indigeneous Products” by University of Windsor, is licensed under CC BYNC-ND 4.0, available in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business by Russell Evans, Michael
Mihalicz, and Maureen Sterling, licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license, except where otherwise
noted.
380 | 8.7: THE 4 PS: PRICE AND PLACE

[Page 413]
The Third P — Place
In marketing, “place“ is the third of the “4Ps ” of marketing and ref ers to where and ho w a company sells its
products to consumers:
• Where: The physical locations or digital channels where a company will sell its products.
• How: The distribution channels, transportation, and storage methods a company will use to get its
products to consumers.
• Goal: To reach the target audience and meet sales targets.
A lot is involved in getting a product to the place from which it is ultimately sold. If you’re a fast food retailer,
for example, you’ll want your restaurants to be in high-traffic areas to maximize your potential business. If your
business is selling beer, you’ll want it to be offered in bars, restaurants, grocery stores, convenience stores, and
even stadiums. Placing a product in each of these loc ations requires substantial negotiations with the o wners
of the space and often the payment of slotting fees (an allowance paid by the manufacturer to secure space on
store shelves).
Retailers are marketing interme diaries that sell products to the ev entual c onsumer. W ithout retailers,
companies w ould ha ve a much more difficult time selling dire ctly to individual c onsumers, no doubt at a
substantially higher cost. Many retailers do not fit neatly into only one c ategory, for example, Walmart, which
began as a disc ount store, has adde d groc eries to man y of its outlets, also p lacing it in c ompetition with
supermarkets. Similarly, IKEA is a furniture retailer but also pro vides a p lace to eat, the “IKEA Sw edish
Restaurant” within the store, placing it in competition with restaurants.
The logistics of p lace are all the activities re quired to mo ve a product from the production line to the
end user. This includes transportation, w arehousing, inventory management, order proc essing, and selecting
distribution channels. Effective logistics re quires strategic p lanning and c oordination to deliv er the right
product to the right place, at the right time, in a suitable condition, and at the correct cost.
8.7: THE 4 PS: PRICE AND PLACE | 381

[Page 414]
8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION
Promotion is a p art of the marketing mix that ref ers to the methods use d to c ommunicate with customers
about a product or service. It involves a combination of promotional tools and techniques to reach a company’s
goals. The promotional mix is the means b y which a c ompany communicates with its customers and ma y
include adv ertising, social me dia, email marketing, personal selling, sales promotion, pub lic relations, and
more. The go al of promotion is to c reate a message that resonates with customers and enc ourages them to
purchase a product.
Before deciding on an appropriate promotional strategy, a business should consider a few questions:
• What’s the main purpose of the promotion?
• Who is the target market?
• Which product features should be emphasized?
• How much can the business afford to invest in a promotional campaign?
• How do competitors promote their products?
To promote a product, y ou need to imprint a clear image of it in the minds of y our target audienc e. What
do you think of, f or instance, when you hear “Ritz-Carlton”? What about “M otel 6”? Both are hotel chains
that have been quite successful in the hospitality industry , but they proje ct very different images to appeal to
different clientele. The differences are evident in their promotions. The Ritz-Carlton website describes itself as
the “gold standard” and promises that the chain provides “the finest personal service and facilities throughout
the world.”1
Motel 6, by contrast, characterizes its f acilities as “no frills ” and assures y ou that you’ll pay “the
lowest price.”2
Promotional Tools
Advertising
Advertising is paid, non-personal communication designed to create an awareness of a product or c ompany.
1. The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC (2024). The gold standard: About the Ritz-Carlton.
2. Motel6 (2024). Motel6: About us/FAQs.
382 | 8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION

[Page 415]
Ads are ev erywhere — in print me dia (such as newsp apers, magazines, mailers), on billbo ards, in bro adcast
media (radio and T V), and, inc reasingly, online. It’s hard to esc ape the c onstant b arrage of adv ertising
messages. Research on the e xact number of ads the a verage person sees each day varies, but estimates suggest
that we are exposed to anywhere from 4,000 to 10,000 ads daily . This figure includes all f orms of advertising,
from traditional me dia like T V and radio to digital p latforms such as social me dia, search engines, and
websites.3
You wear a GymShark T-shirt or a pair of lululemon pants while scrolling through your Facebook or
Instagram feed while brushing your teeth with Crest toothpaste, and that’s just within the first 20 minutes of
your day! At some point, you start a screening process for what you engage with, and you start ignoring brands
and advertising messages, unless it’s something that you have a personal interest in.4
Even so, advertising is still
the most prevalent form of promotion.
The choice of advertising media depends on the c ompany’s product, target audience, and budget. A tra vel
agency selling spring-break geta ways to c ollege students might post fly ers on c ampus bulletin bo ards or run
ads in campus newspapers. The co-founders of Sleep Country Canada f ound radio ads p articularly effective,
ingraining their catchy jingle, “Why buy a mattress anywhere else?” into listeners nationwide.
Exercise: Advertising Crossword
Below are 15 of the most successful advertising campaigns of all time. Can you determine the
product that aligns with each campaign? Try this crossword puzzle to find out.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=288#h5p-20
3. Adfuel Inc. (2024, June 27). The daily ad exposure: How many ads does the average person see each day?
4. Simpson, J. (2022, April 14). Finding brand success in the digital world. Forbes.
8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION | 383

[Page 416]
Personal selling: Realtor handing keys to a new home
buyer
Personal Selling and Direct
Marketing
Personal Selling
Personal selling refers to one-on-one
communication with customers or potential
customers. This type of interaction is ne cessary in
selling large-ticket items, such as homes, and it’s also
effective in situations in which personal attention
helps to close a sale, such as sales of c ars and
insurance policies. Many retail stores depend on the
expertise and enthusiasm of their salespe ople to
persuade customers to buy . Home Depot has gro wn into a home-goods giant in large p art because it f osters
one-on-one interactions between salespeople and customers. Best Buy has staff helping educate consumers on
technical devices; the store also offers technical support through the “Geek Squad.” When you visit the Honda
or Subaru dealerships to buy a v ehicle, you will be gre eted by a sales associate who will spend time with y ou
discussing the vehicles’ features, financing, options, etc.
It is often used in business-to-business consultations and sales. The sales pitch is tailored to each customer’s
specific needs. There is a high level of personal interaction with immediate feedback. It works well in complex
high-value product/servic e sales (e.g., real estate, custom softw are so lutions). It is relationship-driv en and
requires in-depth explanations or demonstrations in industries where trust is critical.
Direct Marketing
Direct marketing is a marketing appro ach that involves direct communication with c onsumers to generate
a response or transaction. It does not rely on interme diaries such as retailers or adv ertising p latforms. The
company communicates directly with customers through v arious channels to elicit an imme diate response,
such as making a purchase or signing up f or a service. Examples include email marketing, catalogues, or direct
mail c ampaigns. Customer interaction is limite d with no f ace-to-face interaction and relies on impersonal
communication. It is a good choice for quick responses to promotions, reaching a broad, segmented audience
efficiently, or building brand awareness and driving online traffic.
Refer to Table 8.3 for a comparison of direct marketing and personal selling features.
384 | 8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION

[Page 417]
Table 8.3: Comparison of direct marketing and personal selling
Feature Direct Marketing Personal Selling
Communication One-to-many One-to-one
Medium Digital, mail, SMS, and
automated systems
Face-to-face or direct
voice calls
Cost Relatively low per
contact
Higher cost due to
personal effort
Customer
engagement Indirect, often passive Direct, active
interaction
Focus Promoting offers and
generating leads
Building relationships
and closing sales
Scalability
High; can target many
customers
simultaneously
Low; limited by
salesperson capacity
Sales Promotion
A sales promotion is a marketing strategy that uses temporary offers or campaigns to increase sales, encourage
customer loyalty, or build brand awareness. Sales promotions can include any of the following:
• discounts, coupons and rebates
• contests and sweepstakes
• free samples or trials
• bundling (e.g., buy a laptop and get a mouse free)
• loyalty programs (e.g., Starbucks Rewards)
• referral bonuses
• trade promotions (e.g., trade shows)
• in-store displays (e.g., while supplies last)
• seasonal promotions (e.g., Black Friday, Boxing Day, Back-to-school)
• event sponsorship and co-branding (e.g., movie promotions with fast-food chains)
• digital and social media campaigns (e.g., influencer collaborations, limited-time online sales)
It’s likely that at some point, y ou have either purchased an item with a c oupon or because it was advertised as
a buy-one-get-one special. If so, you have responded to a sales promotion — one of the man y ways that sellers
provide incentives for customers to buy. Some promotional activities are targeted directly at consumers and are
designed to motivate them to purchase no w. You’ve probably heard advertisers make statements like “limite d
time only” or “while supplies last.” If so, you’ve encountered a sales promotion directed at consumers.
Other forms of sales promotion are dire cted at dealers and interme diaries. Trade shows are one e xample
8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION | 385

[Page 418]
of a dealer-f ocused promotion. M ammoth convention centres such as the Enerc are Centre in T oronto host
enormous ev ents in which manuf acturers c an disp lay their new products to retailers and other intereste d
parties. At food shows, for example, potential buyers can sample products that manufacturers hope to launch
to the market. F eedback from prospective buyers can even result in changes to new product f ormulations or
decisions not to launch.
Publicity and Public Relations
Public relations (PR) refers to managing ho w others se e and f eel about a person, brand, or c ompany. Free
publicity—say, getting the company or product mentioned or pictured in a newspaper or on T V—can often
generate more customer interest than a c ostly ad. Consumer perc eption of a c ompany is often important
to a c ompany’s suc cess. M any c ompanies, theref ore, manage their pub lic relations in an eff ort to garner
favourable publicity for themselves and their products. When the c ompany does something noteworthy, such
as sponsoring a fundraising ev ent, the pub lic relations dep artment may issue a press release to promote the
event. When the c ompany does something negativ e, such as selling a presc ription drug that has une xpected
side effects, the pub lic relations dep artment will w ork to c ontrol the damage to the c ompany. E very y ear,
Fortune puts out its list of the W orld’s Most Admired Companies. In 2024, these w ere the top five in ranked
order: Apple, Microsoft, Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JPMorgan Chase. Approximately 3,700 analysts,
directors and executives were polled about corporate reputation to determine the final list.5
5. Pietroluongo, L. (2024, April 19). What a re Fortu ne’s most admi red c ompanies i n 2024? Net Reputation. Retriev ed from
https://www.netreputation.com/what-are-fortunes-most-admired-companies-in-2024
386 | 8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION

[Page 419]
Customer engagement through social media
Digital and Social Media
Marketing
Digital mark eting is promotion through digital
platforms, including w ebsites, search engines, and
social media. It includes all marketing eff orts using
digital channels to promote products, servic es, or
brands. Ex amples include search engine
optimization (SEO), p ay-per-click (PPC) ads, and
email campaigns.
In the last sev eral y ears, the popularity of social
media marketing has e xploded. It is a subset of
digital marketing focused specifically on using social
media p latforms to promote brands and engage
audiences. You already know what social media is —
Facebook, T witter, TikT ok ads, Instagram,
LinkedIn, Y ouTube, and an y number of other
online sites that allo w y ou to netw ork, share y our
opinions, ideas, p hotos, etc. Social me dia
marketing is the practice of including social me dia
as part of a company’s marketing program.
The days of trying to reach customers through ads on T V, in newsp apers, or in magazines are o ver. Most
television watchers skip commercials, and few people read newspapers or magazines, and even if they do, they
don’t focus on the ads.
Social media marketing can have many advantages for businesses, including:
• Brand awareness: Reaching a wider audience and increasing brand awareness.
• Website traffic: Sharing links to the company website or blog on social media can drive more traffic to the
website.
• Customer engagement: Improving customer engagement and customer service by connecting with
customers and potential customers in a two-way communication.
• Brand loyalty: Building brand loyalty by providing opportunities for a targeted audience to participate in
company-sponsored activities, such as contests.
• Incentives: Offering and publicizing incentives, such as special discounts or coupons.
• Feedback: Collecting feedback and ideas on how to improve products and marketing initiatives to get a
better understanding of brand perception.
• Word-of-mouth: Allowing customers to interact with each other and spread the word about the
8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION | 387

[Page 420]
company’s products or marketing initiatives.
• Low-cost: Taking advantage of low-cost marketing opportunities by being active on free social sites, such
as Facebook.
• Target segments: Delivering personalized content to specific audiences, as social media platforms offer a
range of targeting options.
• Rankings: Improving search engine rankings as Google and other search engines pull information from
social media platforms into their search results.
Social media marketing can have several disadvantages, including:
• Negative feedback: Customers can publicly voice their complaints, which can damage a company’s
reputation.
• Time-consuming: Social media marketing requires consistent content creation, community
management, and engagement with followers.
• Difficult to measure: It can be challenging to measure the effectiveness of social media marketing, as it
often involves tracking multiple metrics and analyzing complex data sets.
• Competition: With millions of businesses competing for attention on social media, it can be difficult to
stand out.
• Platform changes: Social media platforms are constantly changing their algorithms and policies, which
can make it difficult to predict and maintain success.
• Security and privacy policy issues: Social media platforms may have security and privacy policy issues.
• Not built for all groups: Social media marketing may not work for all groups of people.
• Expensive: Social media marketing can be expensive and confusing if done incorrectly.
Media Attributions
“Real Estate Agent Handing the Key to Her Client” by RDNE Stock project, used under the Pexels license.
“Networks, Technology, App image” by jonnyqueirozcl, used under the Pixabay license.
388 | 8.8: THE FOURTH P — PROMOTION

[Page 421]
8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS
Customers are the most important asset that an y business has. W ithout enough customers, no c ompany can
survive. Firms must not only attract new customers but also retain current customers.
Here are a few facts about retaining customers:1
• The probability of selling to an existing customer is 60-70%, while the probability of selling to a new
prospective customer is only 5-20%.
• It costs up to 7 times more to acquire a new customer than to retain an existing customer.
• 65% of a company’s business comes from existing customers.
• Loyal customers spend 67% more than new ones.
• 82% of companies agree that customer retention is less expensive than customer acquisition.
Retaining customers is the purpose of customer-relationship manag ement—a marketing strategy that
focuses on using inf ormation about current customers to nurture and maintain strong relationships with
them. The underlying theory is fairly basic: to keep customers happy, you treat them well, give them what they
want, listen to them, rew ard them with disc ounts and other lo yalty incentives, and deal effectively with their
complaints. Do you know some companies that do a good job of retaining customers? How about Amazon,
Spotify, or Starbucks? These companies seem to know how to keep customers happy.
Another adv antage of ke eping in touch with customers is the opportunity to off er them additional
products. Amazon is a master at this strategy . When y ou make y our first purchase at Amazon, y ou’re also
making a lifelong “friend,” one who will suggest (b ased on what you’ve bought before) other things that y ou
might like to buy. Because Amazon continually updates its data on y our preferences, the company gets better
at making suggestions.
Developed in-house, Amazon’s CRM softw are c aptures customer data at the point of purchase, which
it uses to instantly customize its users ’ online e xperience and get a full view of the customer journey . It
learns about customer habits, improves relationships from the first purchase, and reduces returns or even cart
abandonment based on the customer’s e-commerce activities.2
Refer to Table 8.4 for key actions taken by Amazon, Nike, and Starbucks to retain customers.
1. Kiniulis, M. (2021, June 6). Customer acquisition vs. customer retention: What does the data say? Markin Blog
2. Binns, R. (2023, February 22). Amazon CRM case study. ExpertMarket.
8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS | 389

[Page 422]
Table 8.4: Key actions to retain customers
Amazon Nike
Membership: Free two-day shipping, exclusive
deals, access to streaming services (Prime Video,
Prime Music), and more.
Strong Brand Identity: Creates a powerful
emotional connection through the “Just Do It”
slogan and campaigns featuring inspiring
athletes.
Exceptional Customer Service: Customer
support, hassle-free returns, and refunds.
Product Innovation: Constantly develops
cutting-edge products like Flyknit, Air Max, and
self-lacing shoes.
Personalization: Uses data analytics to
recommend products based on customer
behaviour, previous purchases, and browsing
history.
Customization Options: Offers personalized
products through Nike By You, allowing
customers to design shoes and apparel.
Wide Product Selection: Offers nearly
everything, from books and electronics to
groceries and furniture, on a single platform.
Digital Ecosystem: Integrates apps like Nike
Run Club and Nike Training Club for fitness
tracking and personalized coaching.
Competitive Pricing: Monitors and matches
competitor prices, offering deals and discounts.
Direct-to-Consumer Sales: Focuses on
Nike-owned stores and online platforms,
reducing reliance on third-party retailers.
Seamless User Experience: Provides an intuitive
website and app interface with features like
1-click ordering and voice shopping through
Alexa.
Community Engagement: Hosts events,
challenges, and local running clubs to foster
community among customers.
Subscription Services: Options like “Subscribe &
Save” for recurring orders (e.g., household items,
groceries) and Kindle Unlimited for eBooks.
Sustainability Initiatives: Introduced the “Move
to Zero” campaign, aiming for zero carbon
emissions and zero waste.
Gamification and Loyalty Incentives: Reward
programs like Amazon Coins for digital
purchases and exclusive deals for Prime
members.
Endorsements and Collaborations: Partners
with top athletes (e.g., LeBron James, Serena
Williams) and designers for exclusive collections.
Continuous Innovation: Introduces new
features like Amazon Go (cashier-less shopping),
drone delivery (Prime Air), and Alexa devices.
Exceptional Customer Service: Provides easy
returns, exchange policies, and support across
channels.
Community Engagement and Trust: Provides
reliable customer reviews and Q&A forums,
ensuring transparency.
Social Media and Digital Marketing: Engages
customers through platforms like Instagram,
TikTok, and Twitter with dynamic content.

390 | 8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS

[Page 423]
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Jesse Michael
Jesse Michael
Jesse Michael is the Senior V ice President, Digital So lutions at Jones Lang Lasalle, where he p artners with
retailers, retail property owners, venture capital and private equity firms, and internal teams to provide thought
leadership on inno vative business and p lanning proc esses, te chnology inno vation, and strategic
implementation/scaling across multiple organizational departments.
Jesse has 15+ years of experience in the te chnology industry, having built and sc aled his own company. He
was also a p art of v arious leadership teams that le d companies through different stages of funding, from the
initial seed money to Series A, B, and C rounds.
Series A, B, and C rounds are stages of funding f or startups, where Series A is the first major round to scale
the business, Series B is for growth and expansion, and Series C is for further scaling and development.
Jesse was previously the M anaging Director at Adeptmind. He helpe d the company secure $6.2 million in
Series A funding and managed all operations, engineering, and revenue. He also built strong connections with
retail and property tech investors, as well as over 200 owners and retail landlords worldwide.
Jesse w as the M anaging Dire ctor at Stoc ard (Klarna) and Senior Sales Dire ctor at Flipp . He f ormed
partnerships with ma jor retailers and c onsumer goods c ompanies in North Americ a, helping to raise $15
million in Series B funding in 2013 and $61 million in Series C funding in 2016.
“Sales and marketing are the lifeblood of any startup—no matter how great your product is, if no one knows
about it or understands its value, it won’t survive.
These functions don’t just drive revenue—they build brand, validate demand, and create the momentum
every young company needs to grow. More specifically, our marketing function plays a critical and strategic
role in sales enablement, especially in a company where resources are limited and alignment is essential.
In short, sales closes deals, but marketing opens doors, provides the map, and clears the path. When the two
are tightly aligned, the result is a more efficient, scalable, and successful go-to-market engine—exactly what a
startup needs to gain traction and grow.”
8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS | 391

[Page 424]
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Jesse Michael. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Trish Almgren
Trish Almgren
As a product marketer and Conestoga Co llege alumnus, T rish Almgren is a subje ct matter e xpert f or a
company that pro vides netw orking and c ybersecurity products and so lutions. Due to the highly te chnical
nature of se curity and networking, she translates te chnical benefits and f eatures into v alue for the customer,
regardless of the medium.
She works with man y stakeholders, such as field marketing, te chnical and non-te chnical sales teams, and
channel marketing, helping them position the c ompany’s products and so lutions, overcome objections, and
build programs and campaigns that can increase pipeline and customer acquisition.
Trish helps localize the message in different regions throughout Europe, the Middle E ast, Africa, and Asia,
adjusting for cultural and regulatory differences.
As a subje ct matter e xpert, she spends a lot of time with customers, prospe cts, and channel p artners,
explaining how the company can help solve some of their biggest challenges while also testing messaging and
increasing insights around market dynamics.
“Product marketing sets the foundation for the rest of the marketing functions to execute successfully and
therefore requires strong collaboration and stakeholder management skills. It’s strategic and fast-paced, and
no two days are the same. It has afforded me many opportunities, including visiting more than 30 countries
and relocating to two different European countries from Canada. I am incredibly proud of the launchpad
Conestoga gave me as a marketer.”
392 | 8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS

[Page 425]
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © T rish Almgren. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
8.9: RETAINING CUSTOMERS | 393

[Page 426]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Marketing is the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating,
delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and
society at large.
2. An organization’s marketing strategy consists of two major elements: determining its
target market and developing a marketing mix to meet the needs of that market.
3. The marketing mix is the combination of four factors, known as the “4Ps” of marketing.
The 4Ps are designed to serve the target market and include product, price, promotion, and
place.
4. Strategic marketing planning involves setting goals and objectives, analyzing internal and
external business factors, product planning, implementation, and tracking progress.
5. A product life cycle is a theoretical model describing a product’s sales and profits over the
course of its lifetime. During this cycle, the product typically goes through four stages: an
introductory stage, a growth stage, a maturity stage, and a declining stage.
6. A target market is the group of people who are most likely to buy your product or service.
7. Market segments are groups of potential customers with common characteristics
that influence their buying decisions. You can use a number of characteristics to
segment a market, including demographic, geographic, behavioural, and
psychographic.
8. The consumer buying process involves five steps: Need recognition, information search,
evaluation of alternatives, purchase or no-purchase decision, and post-purchase evaluation.
9. Brand strategy shapes the overall experience customers have with your company, defining
its values, promises, and personality. Strategies include private branding, generic branding,
and manufacturer branding. When consumers have a favourable experience with a product,
it builds brand equity. If consumers are loyal to a product over time, it enjoys brand loyalty.
10. Packaging can influence a consumer’s decision to buy a product or pass it up. Packaging
394 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 427]
gives customers a glimpse of the product, and it should be designed to attract their
attention, with consideration given to colour choice, style of lettering, and many other
details.
11. Labelling not only identifies the product but also provides information on the package
contents: who made it and where, or what risks are associated with it (such as being
unsuitable for small children).
12. Product, the first “P” of the marketing mix, refers to both products and services.
13. Price is the only element of the marketing mix that directly generates revenue for a
company. It’s also the most flexible element, and it’s important to continuously monitor and
revise it.
14. Place is the third of the “4Ps” of marketing and refers to where and how a company sells its
products to consumers. The goal is to reach the target audience and meet sales targets.
Retailers are marketing intermediaries that sell products to the eventual consumer.
15. Promotion is the fourth of the “4Ps” of marketing. The goal of promotion is to create a
message that resonates with customers and encourages them to purchase a product.
16. The promotional mix is the means by which a company communicates with its customers
and may include advertising, social media, email marketing, personal selling, public relations,
and more.
17. Advertising is paid, non-personal communication designed to create an awareness of a
product or company.
18. Personal selling refers to one-on-one communication with customers or potential
customers.
19. Direct marketing is a marketing approach that involves direct communication with
consumers to generate a response or transaction. It does not rely on intermediaries such as
retailers or advertising platforms.
20. Sales promotion is a marketing strategy that uses temporary offers or campaigns to
increase sales, encourage customer loyalty, or build brand awareness.
21. Public relations (PR) refers to the management of how others perceive a person, brand, or
company.
22. Digital marketing is promotion through digital platforms, including websites, search
engines, and social media. It includes all the marketing efforts that use digital channels to
promote products, services, or brands.
23. Social media marketing is the practice of including social media as part of a company’s
marketing program.
24. Retaining customers is the purpose of customer-relationship management—a marketing
CHAPTER REVIEW | 395

[Page 428]
strategy that focuses on using information about current customers to nurture and maintain
strong relationships with them.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 8: Marketing Management [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. Best Brands. Use the Internet to search for the best global brands from last year. What did
you discover? Were you surprised by the top five brands? Why do you think these
companies have the best brands? Discuss with a partner, the class and/or the professor.
2. Apple’s Marketing Mix. Visit Apple’s website for iPhones and describe the marketing mix:
product, price, place, and promotion. How does Apple attempt to foster good customer
relations? What marketing recommendations would you make? Share your findings with
your class and/or professor.
3. SWOT Analysis. Visit Walmart SWOT Analysis or any another site that offers a SWOT
analysis for Walmart. Would you add to the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities or threats
that are listed? Why or why not? How could Walmart take advantage of its strengths in
terms of its marketing mix? What market environmental forces do you think gave rise to its
opportunities and threats? How much control does Walmart have over its market
environment? What recommendations would you make for Walmart? Explain. Share your
explanation with the class and/or professor.
4. Promotional Strategy. Visit the Sephora website (if you are not in Canada, visit the
Sephora website for your location). This company gives free samples with purchases from its
396 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 429]
website as well as on customers’ birthdays. Do you think that this promotional strategy will
be profitable for the company? Why or why not? Share your observations with the class
and/or professor.
5. Promotional Tools and Techniques. Visit The Running Room Canada. Review the
website. What promotional tools is this business using to attract and retain customers? Do
you think it’s working? Discuss with a partner, the class, and/or your professor.
6. 4Ps of Marketing. Select a product or service you regularly use (e.g., cell phone, food,
cosmetics, clothing) and explain how the 4Ps of marketing apply to this product/service.
Who is the target market or markets? How can this product be modified, or the marketing
strategy be adjusted, to appeal to other market segments? Discuss with the class and/or
professor.
7. Starting a Business. Assume you wish to start a limousine service (or a business of your
choice or your professor’s choice) in your community. How might you segment the market
for your service? Which marketing mix strategies would you employ? How would you
nurture customer relationships? Share your business marketing strategy with the class and/
or professor.
8. Your Last Purchase. Consider the last thing you purchased. Explain how each of the
following affected your purchasing decision: socio-cultural, situational, psychological, and
marketing mix influences. Discuss with the class and/or professor.
9. Customer Retention. Use the Internet to research the strategies used by Starbucks,
Spotify, IKEA or Nordstrom (or other companies) to retain customers. What did you learn?
Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
10. CRM Software. Use the Internet to research the most popular customer relationship
management software (CRM) used today. What does this software allow businesses to do?
Do you think this gives the business a competitive edge? Do you think it improves customer
service and, thus, customer satisfaction? Explain. Share your findings with your class and/or
professor.
11. New Marketing Model. Use the Internet to research the new marketing model, SAVE.
How does this model differ from the 4Ps model? Do you think it’s better? Explain. Share your
findings with your class and/or professor.
12. PEST Analysis. Use the Internet to research whether or not it is a good time to be selling
real estate, in-ground pools, or plant-based meat (or other product as assigned by your
professor)? Conduct a PEST analysis to find out. What trends are happening with
consumers? What government regulations may support or hinder sales in these areas?
Discuss with the class and/or professor.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 397

[Page 430]
Self-Check Exercise – Marketing Management Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=294#h5p-21
Additional Resources
• The Marketing Plan: Three Phases. YouTube Video.
• 50 Famous Logos with Hidden Meaning.
• 50 Largest Marketing Companies in the World.
• Marketing Mix: 4Ps (with Real World Examples). YouTube Video.
• Amazon Marketing Strategy. YouTube Video.
• Top 10 Misleading Marketing Tactics. YouTube Video.
• Unethical Marketing Practices (Keyword Stuffing, Dark Patterns, and More). YouTube Video.
• Sale of Goods Act (Ontario).
• Canadian Advertising/Marketing Laws.
• Advertising and Marketing Basics. Federal Trade Commission (US).
• Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
• American Marketing Association (AMA)
• Product Life Cycle in Marketing. YouTube Video.
398 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 431]
• Match Companies with Their Brands (Game)
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 399

[Page 432]
400 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 433]
CHAPTER 9: HUMAN RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 9: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT | 401

[Page 434]
402 | CHAPTER 9: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

[Page 435]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Human resource management (HRM) is an appro ach to managing pe ople in an organization, enc ompassing
processes such as human resourc e p lanning, re cruitment, training, perf ormance appraisal, and c ompliance
with key legislation. This chapter e xplores the importanc e of inclusion, div ersity, e quity, and ac cessibility,
factors c rucial f or emp loyee retention, v arious c ompensation methods, and reasons f or emp loyment
termination, providing a comprehensive overview of HR practices that contribute to a desirable workplace.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Define human resource management (HRM).
2. Explain the human resource planning process.
3. Explore the recruitment and selection process.
4. Describe how companies train and develop their employees.
5. Outline the three-step performance appraisal process.
6. Express the importance of inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility as business practices
and their value to a company.
7. Discuss factors that are crucial in employee retention and contribute to an organization being
a desirable workplace.
8. Identify ways in which companies compensate employees for their work.
9. List reasons for voluntary and involuntary employment termination.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 403

[Page 436]
A busy Starbucks location in Seattle.
9.1: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Human r esource manag ement (HRM) is the strategic practic e of managing an organization’s w orkforce
to achiev e its go als effectively and efficiently . It enc ompasses the re cruitment, training, dev elopment, and
retention of employees, ensuring their skills and contributions align with the organization’s obje ctives. HRM
involves a range of functions, including w orkforce planning, performance management, emp loyee relations,
compensation and benefits, c ompliance with labour la ws, and f ostering a positiv e organizational culture.
By f ocusing on both emp loyee w ell-being and organizational ne eds, HRM aims to maximize emp loyee
performance, satisfaction, and productivity, driving overall business success.
Employees at Starbucks are vital to the company’s
success. They are its pub lic face, and every dollar of
sales p asses through their hands. 1
According to
Howard Schultz, an Americ an businessman best
known f or transf orming Starbucks into a glob al
coffee empire, emp loyees c an make or break the
company. If a customer has a positiv e interaction
with an emp loyee, the customer will c ome back. If
an enc ounter is negativ e, the customer is prob ably
gone for good. That’s wh y it’s crucial for Starbucks
to re cruit and hire the right pe ople, train them
properly, motiv ate them to do their best, and
encourage them to stay with the company. Thus, the company works to provide satisfying jobs, a positive work
environment, appropriate w ork sche dules, and f air c ompensation and benefits. These activities are p art of
Starbucks’s strategy to dep loy human resourc es in order to gain a c ompetitive adv antage. The proc ess is
referred to as human resourc e management (HRM) and c onsists of all actions that an organization takes to
attract, develop, and retain quality employees. Each of these activities is complex. Attracting talented employees
involves the recruitment of qualified candidates and the selection of those who best fit the organization’s needs.
Development enc ompasses both new-emp loyee orientation and the training and dev elopment of current
workers. Retaining good emp loyees means motiv ating them to e xcel, appraising their perf ormance,
compensating them appropriately, and doing what’s possible to keep them.
1. Starbucks. (2016). Working at Starbucks.
404 | 9.1: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

[Page 437]
Media Attributions
“Starbucks, Seattle, Coffee image” by iccmande, used under the Pixabay license.
9.1: HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT | 405

[Page 438]
9.2: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING
PROCESS
How does Starbucks make sure that its w orldwide retail loc ations are staffed with just the right number of
committed employees? How does Norwegian Cruise Lines make certain that when the Norwegian Dawn pulls
out of New Y ork harbour, it has a c omplete, fully traine d crew on bo ard to f eed, entertain, and c are for its
passengers? Managing these tasks is a matter of strategic human resource planning—the process of developing
a plan for satisfying an organization’s human resources (HR) needs.
The human resource (HR) planning process is a strategic approach to ensuring that an organization has the
right number of emp loyees, with the right skills, at the right time to me et its go als. It involves analyzing and
forecasting an organization’s human resource needs and aligning HR practices to support the overall business
strategy.
Here are the key steps in the HR planning process:
• Analyze organizational objectives and strategy. Understand business goals to forecast future HR
needs. HR must align its planning with the company’s short-term and long-term objectives. This could
include expansion plans, new product launches, or entering new markets. Anticipate the workforce
requirements based on business growth, market conditions, and other factors like technological changes
and regulatory impacts.
• Assess the current workforce. Conduct an inventory of the current employees, assessing their skills,
qualifications, experience, and potential for future roles. Determine where the organization has talent
shortages, skill gaps, or excess capacity. Understand the strengths and weaknesses of the current
workforce to guide future development and hiring needs.
• Forecast HR demand and supply. Predict future human resources needs based on business growth,
turnover rates, retirements, and other factors. Assess the current and future availability of talent,
considering internal talent, external labour markets, and potential new hires. Ensure the forecasted
supply of talent meets the projected demand for skills, considering factors like employee retention and
workforce trends.
• Develop HR strategies. Plan for hiring new talent or promoting from within to meet staffing needs.
Identify training programs to develop employees and close skill gaps, ensuring employees are equipped
to meet future demands. Prepare for key leadership roles by identifying potential internal candidates and
creating development plans to groom them for future positions.
• Implement HR strategies. Put the HR strategies into practice, such as launching recruitment drives,
rolling out employee development programs, or implementing workforce restructuring plans. Ensure
406 | 9.2: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING PROCESS

[Page 439]
that adequate resources are available to support the execution of the plan (budget, time, training
materials, etc.).
• Monitor and evaluate HR plans. Regularly review the progress of HR initiatives, such as hiring,
training, or retention efforts, to ensure alignment with organizational goals. Assess whether HR
planning outcomes are achieving the desired results, such as improved workforce skills, reduced
turnover, or increased productivity. Make adjustments based on feedback, changing business conditions,
or unforeseen challenges to stay aligned with company goals.
• Revise and update plans. As business conditions and organizational goals evolve, HR plans must be
revisited and updated to stay relevant and effective. Incorporate lessons learned from past HR planning
cycles to refine future efforts.
A strategic HR plan lays out the steps that an organization will take to ensure that it has the right number
of emp loyees with the right skills in the right p laces at the right times. HR managers begin b y analyzing
the c ompany’s mission, obje ctives, and strategies. Starbucks ’s obje ctives, f or e xample, include the desire to
“develop enthusiastically satisfied customers” as well as to foster an environment in which employees treat both
customers and each other with respe ct.1
Thus, the firm’s HR managers loo k for people who are “adaptab le,
self-motivated, p assionate, c reative team members.” 2
The main go al of Norw egian Cruise Lines—to la vish
passengers with personal attention—determines not only the type of employee desired (one with exceptionally
good customer-relation skills and a strong w ork ethic) but also the number ne eded (one f or ev ery tw o
passengers on the Norwegian Dawn).3
Forecasting HR Needs
Once they’ve analyzed the jobs within the organization, HR managers must f orecast future hiring (or firing)
needs. HR forecasting is the process of predicting how a company’s staffing needs change with time so that it
can remain prepared to operate successfully. Organizations use HR forecasting to decide whether to hire more
people, reduce their staffing or adjust how they divide responsibilities. There are three steps to forecasting HR
needs:
1. Identify the human resources currently available in the organization (supply).
2. Predict the human resources needed to achieve the organization’s mission and objectives (demand).
1. Starbucks. (2016). Working at Starbucks.
2. Fortune. (2007). 100 top MBA employers. Retrieved from http://archive.fortune.com/magazines/fortune/mba100/2007/full_list/index.html
3. Cruise International. (n.d.). The Norwegian Dawn. Retreived from http://www.cruise-international.com/cruise-search/
9.2: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING PROCESS | 407

[Page 440]
3. Measure the gap between the two (shortage or surplus).
Starbucks, for instance, might find that it ne eds three hundred new employees to work at stores sche duled to
open in the next few months. Disney might determine that it needs two thousand new cast members to handle
an anticipated surge in visitors. The Norwegian Dawn might be short two dozen restaurant workers because of
an unexpected increase in reservations.
After calculating the disparity between supply and future demand, HR managers must dra w up plans for
bringing the tw o numbers into b alance. If the demand f or labour is going to outstrip the supp ly, they ma y
hire more workers, encourage current workers to put in e xtra hours, subcontract work to other supp liers, or
introduce labour-saving initiatives. If the supp ly is greater than the demand, they ma y deal with o verstaffing
by not replacing workers who leave, encouraging early retirements, laying off workers, or (as a last resort) firing
workers.
By predicting future w orkforce needs, HR c an strategically recruit, train, and dev elop employees to align
with business obje ctives, ensuring the organization sta ys c ompetitive and adaptab le in an ev olving market.
Forecasting staffing requirements allows HR to imp lement focused recruitment efforts, succession planning,
and professional development initiatives that promote emp loyee growth and re duce turnover, ensuring key
roles are filled with qualified individuals, which enhances organizational performance. HR planning also helps
organizations optimize staffing lev els, enab ling better c ontrol o ver labour c osts while re ducing the risk of
both understaffing and o verstaffing. By ac curately forecasting workforce ne eds, HR c an effectively manage
budgets, prevent staffing shortages, and ensure c ompliance with labour la ws and regulations, thus mitigating
operational risks.
408 | 9.2: HUMAN RESOURCE PLANNING PROCESS

[Page 441]
Just hired!
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION
PROCESS
The re cruitment and sele ction proc ess is a strategic appro ach to finding, attracting, and hiring the right
talent for an organization. It begins with w orkforce planning and job analysis to identify staffing ne eds and
create detailed job descriptions and specifications. The recruitment phase involves sourcing candidates through
various channels like job bo ards, social me dia, internal promotions, and netw orking. Once applications are
received, the sele ction proc ess ev aluates c andidates through resume sc reening, interviews, assessments, and
reference checks to determine their suitability f or the ro le. The proc ess concludes with e xtending a job off er
to the chosen c andidate, followed by onboarding to integrate them into the organization. This streamline d
approach ensures that the best-fit candidates are hired efficiently while aligning with organizational goals.
The recruitment and selection process typically involves the following stages:
Recruitment Process:
• Job analysis and planning
• Sourcing candidates
Selection Process:
• Screening and shortlisting
• Interviews
• Reference and background checks
• Job offer and negotiation
• Onboarding
Recruitment Process
Armed with information on the number of new emp loyees to be hired and the types of positions to be fille d,
the HR manager then dev elops a strategy f or re cruiting potential emp loyees. Recruiting is the proc ess of
identifying suitable candidates and enc ouraging them to app ly for openings in the organization. When the
organization seeks to hire talent, re cruiters within the HR dep artment assume this responsibility b y creating
job postings, sc reening candidates, and setting up interviews. While re cruiting refers to the bro ader effort of
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS | 409

[Page 442]
attracting and sourcing candidates, selection specifically focuses on evaluating and choosing the best candidate
for the job.
Job Analysis and Planning
Job analysis and p lanning is the foundational step in the re cruitment process, focusing on understanding the
specific requirements of a ro le and preparing for effective talent acquisition. Job analysis involves examining
the tasks, responsibilities, skills, and qualifications (knowledge and abilities) needed for a position, resulting in a
clear and detailed job description and specification. Planning complements this by aligning recruitment efforts
with organizational goals, determining the number and type of positions to be filled, and setting timelines and
budgets for the hiring process. This stage ensures clarity about the ro le and provides a strategic framework to
attract the most suitable candidates, aligning workforce capabilities with business objectives.
To develop an HR p lan, HR managers must be kno wledgeable about the jobs that the organization ne eds
their employees to perform. HR managers gather inf ormation about a given job by performing a job analysis
and use the information collected to prepare two documents:
• A job description, which lists the duties and responsibilities of a position
• A job specification, which lists the qualifications—skills, knowledge, and abilities— needed to perform
the job
Sourcing Candidates
Sourcing c andidates is a c ritical step in the re cruitment proc ess that in volves identifying and attracting
potential candidates who meet the qualifications and requirements of a job opening. This process can include
internal sourcing, such as promoting or transferring current employees, and external sourcing, which involves
advertising on job boards, leveraging social media platforms, using recruitment agencies, attending career fairs,
and tapping into employee referrals or professional networks. The goal is to reach a diverse and qualified talent
pool while optimizing the methods used to align with the organization’s needs. Effective sourcing ensures that
the re cruitment process begins with a strong f oundation of c apable and suitab le candidates, increasing the
chances of finding the right fit for the role.
Internal Versus External Recruiting
The first step in recruiting is to find qualified candidates. Where do you look for them, and how do you decide
whether they’re qualifie d? Companies must assess not only the ability of a c andidate to perf orm the duties
of a job, but also whether he or she is a good “fit” f or the c ompany, i.e., how well the c andidate’s values and
interpersonal style match the company’s values and culture.
410 | 9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS

[Page 443]
Publicize the job
Where do y ou find pe ople who satisfy so man y criteria? Basically, you can look in tw o places: inside and
outside y our o wn organization. Both options ha ve p luses and minuses. Hiring internally sends a positiv e
signal to employees that they c an move up in the c ompany—a strong motivation tool and a rew ard for good
performance. In addition, be cause an internal c andidate is a kno wn quantity, it’s easier to pre dict his or her
success in a new position. Finally, it’s cheaper to recruit internally. On the other hand, you’ll probably have to
fill the promoted employee’s position. Hiring externally gives you an opportunity to bring fresh ideas and skills
into the company. In any case, it’s often the only alternativ e, especially if no one inside the c ompany has just
the right combination of skills and experience. Entry-level jobs are usually filled from the outside.
Publicize the Job
Whether y ou search inside or outside the
organization, you need to pub licize the opening. If
you’re looking internally in a small organization, you
can alert emp loyees inf ormally. In larger
organizations, HR managers generally post
openings on bulletin bo ards (often online) or
announce them in newsletters. They c an also se ek
direct recommendations from various supervisors.
Recruiting pe ople from outside is more
complicated. It’s a lot like marketing a product to
buyers: in eff ect, y ou’re marketing the virtues of
working f or y our c ompany. Starbucks uses the
following outlets to advertise openings:1
• A dedicated section of the corporate website (“Job Centre,” which lists openings, provides information
about the Starbucks experience, and facilitates the submission of online applications)
• College and university campus recruiting (holding on-campus interviews and information sessions, and
participating in career fairs)
• Internships designed to identify future talent among college students
• Announcements on employment websites like LinkedIn, Workopolis, Indeed, LeapOut, JobBank, and
Eluta
• Social media
• Local job fairs
1. Thompson, C. (n.d.). In Focus: Target your recruitment market. Retrieved from http://www.net-temps.com/recruiters/infocus/article.htm
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS | 411

[Page 444]
• In-store recruiting posters
• Informative “business cards” for distribution to customers
When aske d what it takes to attract the best pe ople, Starbucks ’s senior e xecutive Da ve Olsen rep lied,
“Everything matters.” E verything Starbucks does as a c ompany bears on its ability to attract talent.
Accordingly, everyone is responsible for recruiting, not just HR spe cialists. In fact, the best sourc e of quality
applicants is often the company’s own labour force.2
Contingent Workers
Though most people prefer to hold permanent, full-time positions, there’s a gro wing number of individuals
who work at temporary or p art-time jobs, either b y choice or as the only a vailable option. Many of these are
contingent workers hired to supplement a company’s permanent workforce. Most of them are independent
contractors, consultants, or fre elancers who are p aid by the firms that hire them. Others are on-c all workers
who work only when needed, such as substitute teachers. Still others are temporary workers (or “temps”) who
are employed and paid by outside agencies or contract firms that charge fees to client companies.
The use of c ontingent workers provides companies with a number of benefits. Be cause they c an be hire d
and fired easily, employers can better c ontrol labour c osts. When things are bus y, they c an add temps, and
when business is slow, they can release unneeded workers. Temps are often cheaper than permanent w orkers,
particularly because they rarely receive costly benefits. Employers can also bring in people with specialized skills
and talents to w ork on spe cial projects without entering into long-term emp loyment relationships. Finally ,
companies can “try out” temps: if some one does well, the company can offer permanent emp loyment; if the
fit is less than perf ect, the emp loyer c an easily terminate the relationship . There are do wnsides to the use
of contingent workers, including inc reased training c osts and de creased loyalty to the c ompany. Also, many
employers believe that be cause temps are usually less c ommitted to c ompany goals than permanent w orkers,
productivity suffers.
2. Lee, D. (2006). Your first task as a recruiter: Recruit senior management onto your team. HumanNature@Work.
412 | 9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS

[Page 445]
LinkedIn is the most popular social network for
professionals.
Social Networking and Employee Recruitment
Referrals and professional networking are commonly used methods of identifying job prospects,
particularly for managerial, professional, and technical positions. Several software applications and
social networks facilitate employee referrals, reference checking, and hiring based on networks of
personal relationships. ExecuNet is just one of the many career sites that allows members to search
for contacts and network with other professionals in their fields.
LinkedIn is the most popular social network
for professionals. It is a giant database of
contacts with profiles that provide an overview
of a person’s past and present professional
experience, skills, professional referrals, and
affiliations with business and professional
associations. A member can search through an
extended network of contacts based on his or
her professional acquaintances. The basis for a
search can be job, job title, company,
geography, zip code, or membership in a
professional organization. LinkedIn uses the
concept that there are no more than six
degrees of separation between two people, or
one person can be linked to any other
individual through no more than six other
people. With 1 billion members in more than
200 countries and territories worldwide, LinkedIn’s extensive platform is an ideal network for both
recruiters and those looking to make their next career move.3
3. LinkedIn. (n.d.). About LinkedIn.
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS | 413

[Page 446]
Nearly 90% of recruiters report hiring someone from LinkedIn. 4 That’s the power of social media
recruiting; it offers a host of advantages, such as broader reach, cost-effectiveness, and real-time
engagement!
Recruiters utilize various social media platforms because they provide unparalleled reach to
potential candidates. By utilizing these platforms, recruiters can access a vast pool of talent and
increase the visibility of job opportunities. Social media recruiting is also more cost-effective than
traditional recruitment methods. Posting job ads, sharing content, and engaging with candidates
on social media platforms are generally more affordable than other advertising channels. Moreover,
with the rise of remote work and digital nomadism, job seekers increasingly use their mobile
devices for job hunting. Social media platforms are easily accessible via mobile devices, making
them convenient for job seekers to browse job postings anytime, anywhere.5
Selection Process
After a firm has attracted enough job applicants, employment specialists begin the selection process. Selection
is the proc ess of determining which pe ople in the app licant poo l possess the qualific ations ne cessary to be
successful on the job. An applicant who can jump over each step, or hurdle, will very likely receive a job offer;
thus, this is kno wn as the suc cessive hurdles appro ach to app licant screening. Alternatively, an app licant can
be rejected at any step or hurdle. The steps in the employee selection process and the accompanying hurdles at
each step are shown in Figure 9.1.

4. Haiilo. (2023, January 9). Social media recruitment: The ultimate guide.
5. Baloun, S. (2024, January 17). Redefining recruitment: How to excel at social media recruiting in 2024. SocialPilot. Retrieved from
https://www.socialpilot.co/blog/social-media-recruiting
414 | 9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS

[Page 447]
Figure 9.1: Steps in the Selection Process [See image description.]
Initial Screening
During the initial sc reening phase, app licants typic ally c omplete an app lication f orm and/or submit a
résumé and p articipate in a brief interview lasting 30 minutes or less. The job app lication generally includes
details about the app licant’s educational background, prior work experience, and spe cific job responsibilities
performed. For some positions, applicants may be asked to provide additional materials such as work samples,
certificates, c redentials, or other supporting documents, either along with the résumé or shortly after
advancing past the selection interview.
Initial screenings can vary in f ormat—they may take p lace over the p hone, through online c onferencing,
or oc casionally be b ypassed altogether, with c andidates proc eeding dire ctly to the interview stage. These
variations depend on f actors such as the position’s seniority , the hiring c ompany’s practices, industry norms,
and specific job requirements.
Will There Be Employment Testing?
Following initial sc reening, the app licant ma y be aske d to take one or more tests, such as the W onderlic
Personnel Tests. Wonderlic offers a suite of pre-emp loyment tests f or each p hase of the hiring proc ess. Used
individually or together, the tests c an assess c ognitive ability (ability to learn, adapt, and so lve prob lems),
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS | 415

[Page 448]
motivation potential (attitude, beha viour, performance, and productivity), and kno wledge and skills (math,
verbal, data entry, software proficiency).6
Job candidates are scored on how well they complete the employment
tests.
McDonald’s, f or e xample, emp loys o ver 1.7 million pe ople ac ross the globe, and the c ompany uses
personality tests to assess whether a c andidate is a good fit to be come a p art of the M cDonald’s f amily.
Personality questionnaires are tools to gauge a candidate’s behavioural preferences, and the company uses these
tools to assess a wide range of app licants. By gleaning the results of such standardize d questionnaires, the
company quickly determines the most suitable candidates for particular roles.7
Another example is the Ford Motor Company. The multinational automaker employs over 190,000 people
across the globe, with a widespread presence in 73 countries. Building and managing such a diverse workforce
requires an exceptional hiring strategy. The company uses a two-part psychometric test that includes numerical
and verbal reasoning tests. These tests enab le recruiters to obje ctively assess a wide range of c andidates with
diverse qualifications and e xperience. As a result, F ord Motor can quickly identify suitab le applicants for a
given role by analyzing the tests ’ outcomes. Gathering such granular insights into c andidates’ skills from just
interviews and resumes se ems rather unlikely, so the c ompany uses professional psychometric tests at v arious
stages of the hiring process, the company quickly determines the most suitable candidates for particular roles.8
Selection Interview
The tool most widely used in making hiring decisions is the selection interview, an in-depth discussion of an
applicant’s work experience, skills and abilities, education, and career interests. For managerial and professional
positions, an app licant may be interviewed by several people, including the line manager, f or the position to
be filled. This interview is designe d to determine a person’s c ommunication skills and motiv ation. During
the interview, the applicant may be presente d with realistic job situations, such as dealing with a disgruntle d
customer, and aske d to desc ribe ho w they w ould handle the prob lem. Some organizations ha ve multip le
interviews with candidates at various levels of management. When designing interviews, the HR dep artment
will pro vide the interview er(s) with sc ore she ets. The c andidates are sc ored on ho w w ell they answ er the
questions during the interview. In Canada, it’s illegal f or job applications to ask questions about rac e-related
grounds, such as p hysical characteristics like ey e colour, hair, height, and w eight. When y ou take a c ourse in
career planning, you will learn how to complete a successful interview.
6. Wonderlic. (n.d.). The Wonderlic personnel tests. Retrieved February 8, 2018 from https://www.wonderlic.com
7. Malguri, A. (2018, March 30). Twenty-five companies that use psychometric testing for hiring. Blog Mettl.
8. Malguri, A. (2018, March 30). Twenty-five companies that use psychometric testing for hiring. Blog Mettl.
416 | 9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS

[Page 449]
Eye exam for work (a bona fide requirement for
certain industries)
Do I Need Physical Exams and Drug
Testing?
A firm ma y re quire an app licant to ha ve a me dical
checkup to ensure they are p hysically ab le to
perform job tasks. In the U.S., drug testing is
common in the transportation and health c are
industries. Southwest Airlines, BNSF Railway, Texas
Health Resourc es, and the U.S. P ostal Servic e use
drug testing f or reasons of w orkplace saf ety,
productivity, and emp loyee health. In Canada, preemployment drug testing c ould be c onsidered
discriminatory (Canadian human rights law). This is
because drug and alcohol testing could reveal a person’s substance dependency and addiction, and poses a risk
of discrimination against the candidate if a job offer is rescinded. Unless an employer can prove that there is a
bona fide occupational requirement (BFOR) for testing, it is best practic e for employers not to c onduct preemployment drug testing f or non-safety positions. If an emp loyer is re cruiting for a safety-sensitive position,
then pre-emp loyment drug testing c ould be justifiab le as a po licy f or the promotion of w orkplace saf ety.9
Generally, y ou do not ne ed a p hysical e xam to get a job , but c ertain jobs that re quire p hysical strength or
endurance or jobs in the public health sector, may require a physical exam. A few of these job examples include
firefighter, police officer, lifeguard, truck driver, bus driver, and military personnel.
Background and Reference Check
If app licants pass the sele ction interview, most firms e xamine their b ackground and che ck their ref erences.
References are people who will attest to y our skills and abilities be cause they ha ve observed you in action.
The most v aluable ref erences are those from f ormer or current emp loyers, as they c arry the most w eight
with potential emp loyers. While friends and f amily ma y offer positiv e f eedback, hiring managers are more
interested in learning about y our p ast perf ormance in a prof essional setting. In re cent y ears, an inc reasing
number of employers, such as American Airlines, Disney, and Microsoft, are carefully researching applicants’
backgrounds, particularly their legal history , reasons f or leaving previous jobs, and ev en creditworthiness. If
the company has not already c ollected supporting evidenc e of y our credentials (e.g., e ducational credentials,
industry certifications, etc.), then they will most likely do so at this stage. Not all job positions re quire that
you have supporting evidenc e, but higher-lev el jobs usually do . If a c andidate were to, for example, submit
9. Vacaflor, C. (2023, October 25). Pre-employment drug testing in Canada: An employer’s guide. Peninsula Group Limited.
9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS | 417

[Page 450]
fraudulent credential documents and then the company were to discover this after hiring, the company would
most probably terminate employment.
Decision to Hire
If an applicant successfully completes all stages of the sele ction process, a decision to hire is made. For higherlevel positions or ro les within unionize d environments, this de cision is often b ased on a c ombination of test
results (if app licable) and interview sc ores. However, not all jobs re quire testing or a f ormal scoring process
for interview questions. To ensure fairness and objectivity, many companies adopt scoring methods to evaluate
candidates systematically. Ultimately, the job offer is extended to the candidate who best aligns with the ro le’s
requirements and organizational needs.
Media Attributions
“Female Candidate doing Hand Shakes” by Tima Miroshnichenko, used under the Pexels license.
“Hire, Hiring, Recruitment image” by HelloVector, used under the Pixabay license.
“Linkedin, Online, Success royalty-free stock illustration” by tiffanytlcbm, used under the Pixabay license.
“Figure 9.1: Steps in the Sele ction Process” is reused from Chapter 11: Human Resources Management in
Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Eye test, Ophthalmology, Man image by newarta, used under the Pixabay license.
Image descriptions
Figure 9.1
A diagram illustrating a f our-step hiring process, depicted as a series of interc onnected, ascending steps. Each
step is a different colour and numbered and corresponds to a step in the process. Above each step, there is text
outlining each step, linked to the step by a black line. The steps are as follows:
Step 01 (red): Initial Screening of Applicants (may include supporting documents and testing)
Step 02 (yellow): Selection Interview (may be multiple interviews)
Step 03 (cyan): Background and Reference Checks (may include testing)
Step 04 (purple): Decision to Hire (review candidate scores and best-fit for job)
[back to figure]
418 | 9.3: THE RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION PROCESS

[Page 451]
9.4: DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES
Because companies can’t survive unless employees do their jobs well, it makes economic sense to train them and
develop their skills. This type of support begins when an individual enters the organization and c ontinues as
long as he or she stays there.
New-Employee Orientation
Have you ever started your first day at a new job f eeling upbeat and optimistic, only to w alk out at the end of
the day thinking that ma ybe you’ve taken the wrong job? If this happens too often, y our employer may need
to revise its approach to orientation—the way it introduces new employees to the organization and their jobs.
Starting a new job is a little like beginning c ollege; at the outset, you may be experiencing any of the following
feelings:1
• Anxiety
• Confusion
• Loneliness
• Imposter syndrome
• Stress and exhaustion
The employer who understands how common such feelings are is more likely not only to help new comers get
over them but also to avoid the pitfalls often associated with new-employee orientation:2
• Failing to have a workspace set up for you
• Failing to implement a feedback mechanism for new hires to give feedback
• Failing to introduce new employees to their coworkers
• Failing to share clear expectations and goals for new employees
Initially, when an employee is hired, the organization uses an orientation program to introduce the employee
1. Recruiters. (n.d.). Starting a new job? These five feelings are completely normal.
2. HRM Handbook. (n.d.) Avoiding the onboarding pitfalls: 12 worst practices that hinder new employee success.
9.4: DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES | 419

[Page 452]
to the company’s people, policies, and procedures. A good employer will take things slowly, providing you with
information about the c ompany and your job on a ne ed-to-know basis while making y ou feel as comfortable
as possib le. You’ll get to kno w the c ompany’s history, traditions, and culture o ver time. Y ou’ll learn more
about salary and benefits, and how your performance will be evaluated. Most importantly, you’ll find out how
your job fits into overall operations and what’s expected of you. Over the first few weeks, the manager should
schedule check-in meetings to review expectations, progress, responsibilities, and answer any questions the new
employee may have. Failure to integrate new hires into a company adequately leads to low retention rates.
Training and Development
When y ou start a new job , y ou ma y enter that job ro le with man y skills and kno wledge gaine d through
education or previous work experience. Even with some experience, knowledge, and skills, your new employer
will still w ant to pro vide you with training spe cific to the te chnologies, processes, and practic es used by the
organization.
As you grow with y our new emp loyer, you will ne ed to c ontinually learn, after all, lif e is about lif elong
learning, and our world continues to grow around us. We need to keep up with the times. Comp anies ensure
their emp loyees ha ve the skills and kno wledge to support c ompany go als and f or the c ompany to remain
competitive in its field. Often, emp loyers p ay f or programs/c ourses whereb y emp loyees c an update their
knowledge and skills. This helps retain emp loyees, increase employee satisfaction and brings new ideas and
skills into the business.
Types of Training
Corporate training is essential f or employee onboarding and emp loyee retention. Onbo arding is the perf ect
time to deliver training. A new staff member is bursting with excitement about joining your company. Existing
employees are also eager to extend and develop their skills. In any case, for the sake of learning effectiveness, the
training method is as important as the content and activities.
Below are seven of the best types of employee training methods:3
• Case studies
• Coaching/mentoring
• Technology-based learning (eLearning)
• Instructor-led training
3. Gore, E. (2023, February 9). 7 types of training methods (and how to choose). Elm Learning.
420 | 9.4: DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES

[Page 453]
• Interactive training
• On-the-job training
• Video-based training
Training Costs
It would be nic e if emp loyees came with all the skills they ne ed to do their jobs. It w ould also be nic e if job
requirements stayed the same: once you’ve learned how to do a job, you’d know how to do it forever. In reality,
new emp loyees must be traine d; more over, as they gro w in their jobs or as their jobs change, they’ll ne ed
additional training. Unfortunately, training is costly and time-consuming. How costly?
In a U.S. analysis of corporations and educational institutions with 100 or more employees for the year 2023,
companies spent $954 per emp loyee for training, and the a verage hours of training each emp loyee received
were 57. Servic es organizations spent the most per learner ($1,172), f ollowed by nonprofits ($1,105). Small
($1,420) and midsize ($751) c ompanies spent more per learner than large c orporations ($481). On a verage,
organizations allocated the biggest portions of their training budget to mandatory c ompliance training (13
percent), management/supervisory training (12 percent), and onboarding (11 percent). Diversity, equity, and
inclusion were new categories added in 2023, and they came in at 7 percent.4
Canadian firms in vest modestly in training—an estimate d $240 per emp loyee annually—and lag behind
their international pe ers in rates and hours of instruction. Larger firms are more likely than smaller firms to
provide training. Emp loyers in utilities, financ e and insuranc e, and other kno wledge-based, technology-rich
industries train at above-average rates, while firms in retail, f orestry, and oil and gas e xtraction provide belowaverage levels of training. Firms in Québe c and Ontario are more likely to pro vide training than firms in the
Prairies or Atlantic pro vinces. Given their c oncern for return on in vestment (ROI), firms tend to in vest in
training for immediate needs, such as onboarding and orientation, technology adoption, addressing skills gaps,
and implementing innovations, and favour on-the-job and at-workplace modes of delivery over classroom and
other external options.5
Compliance Training
Compliance training covers the standards for a healthy working environment and teaches safety and accident
prevention procedures.
4. Freifeld, L. (2023, November 14). 2023 training industry report. TrainingMag.
5. LMIC. (2023, March). Employer-sponsored skills training: A picture of skills training opportunities provided by Canadian employers.
9.4: DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES | 421

[Page 454]
Planning an Effective Employee Training Program
Watch the YouTube video below, “Planning an Effective Employee Training Program,” to learn
about how a business can train its employees and specifically provide compliance training for
employees.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=313#oembed-1
Transcript for “Planning an Effective Employee Training Program” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed
captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: HR360 Inc. (2018, November 9). Planning an effective employee training program [Video].
YouTube.

422 | 9.4: DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES

[Page 455]
9.5: PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL
Performance appraisals are structured evaluations that assess an employee’s job performance, contributions,
and achievements over a defined period. The process typically includes reviewing goals, providing constructive
feedback, and identifying areas f or growth or development. Employees often seek clarity from their managers
on three key points: what is expected of them, how well they are meeting those expectations, and how they can
enhance their performance. While effective managers provide ongoing feedback, formal appraisals are generally
conducted annually or semiannually . These ev aluations may involve methods such as self-assessments, pe er
reviews, and manager ev aluations. When imp lemented eff ectively, perf ormance appraisals promote open
communication, boost employee motivation, and inform decisions regarding promotions, salary adjustments,
and career development. Appraisal systems differ between organizations and vary based on the employee’s role
and level within the company.
The Basic Three-Step Performance Appraisal Process:
1. Before managers can measure performance, they must set goals and performance expectations and
specify the criteria (such as quality of work, quantity of work, dependability, and initiative) that they’ll
use to measure performance.
2. At the end of a specified time period, managers complete written evaluations that rate employee
performance according to the predetermined criteria.
3. Managers then meet with each employee to discuss the evaluation. Jointly, they suggest ways in which
the employee can improve performance, which might include further training and development.
It sounds fairly simple, but why do so many managers report that, except for firing people, giving performance
appraisals is their least favourite task?1
Purpose
Performance appraisals serve multiple purposes:
1. Heathfield, S. (2019). Performance appraisals don’t work: The traditional performance appraisal process. LiveAboutDotCom.
9.5: PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL | 423

[Page 456]
Performance appraisal
• For a manager and employee to discuss the employee’s performance and to set future goals and
performance expectations
• To help identify and discuss appropriate training and career-development opportunities for an employee
• To create formal documentation of the evaluation that can be used for salary, promotion, demotion, or
dismissal purposes
• To help organizations recognize and reward high-performing employees
• To align the employee’s goals with organizational objectives
As f or disadv antages, most stem from the f act that appraisals are often use d to determine salaries f or the
upcoming y ear. Conse quently, me etings to discuss perf ormance tend to take on an entirely diff erent
dimension: the manager may appear judgmental (rather than supportive), and the employee may get defensive.
This adversarial atmosphere can make many managers not only uncomfortable with the task but also less likely
to give honest feedback. (They may give higher marks in order to a void delving into critical evaluations.) HR
professionals disagree about whether perf ormance appraisals should be linke d to pay increases. Some experts
argue that the connection eliminates the manager’s opportunity to use the appraisal to improve an employee’s
performance. Others maintain that it increases employee satisfaction with the process and distributes raises on
the basis of effort and results.2
360-Degree and Upward
Feedback
Instead of being ev aluated b y one person, ho w
would you like to be evaluated by several people, not
only those abo ve you in the organization but those
below and beside y ou? The appro ach is c alled
360-degree f eedback, and the purpose is to ensure
that employees (mostly managers) get feedback from
all dire ctions—from supervisors, reporting
subordinates, coworkers, and ev en customers. If it’s c onducted correctly, this te chnique furnishes managers
with a range of insights into their perf ormance in a number of ro les. Some e xperts, ho wever, regard the
360-degree approach as too cumbersome.3
“It should be no surprise that te ch c ompanies like Google and Netflix are among the adherents to 360
2. Archer North & Associates. (2010). Reward issues. Retrieved from http://www.performance-appraisal.com/rewards.htm
3. OneAdvanced. (2024, August 12). 8 reasons why 360-degree feedback fails.
424 | 9.5: PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL

[Page 457]
feedback. Another use case from our own roster of clients is the Nissan Corporation, where 360 feedback took
off among its North American engineering team. It all started with a senior manager wanting to improve their
leadership skills by taking the G360 Survey for Managers. Before long, 360 feedback fever had spread to other
teams and different departments.”4
Media Attributions
“Serious ethnic psychotherapist listening to clients complains” by Alex Green, used under the Pexels license.
4. G360 Surveys. (n.d.). Examples of companies that use 360-degree feedback.
9.5: PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL | 425

[Page 458]
9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND
ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE
The acronym used to refer to equity, diversity, and inclusion may appear in various resources such as EDI, DEI,
IDE, or IDEA, but they all represent the same c oncepts. Inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility (IDEA)
are a set of practic es that aim to ensure that pe ople from a v ariety of b ackgrounds are represente d and c an
thrive.
Most companies today strive for diverse workforces. HR managers work hard to recruit, hire, develop, and
retain a diverse workforce. In part, these efforts are motivated by legal concerns: discrimination in recruiting,
hiring, advancement, and firing is illegal under f ederal law and is prosecuted by the Canadian Human Rights
Tribunal. Companies that violate anti-discrimination laws are subject to severe financial penalties and also risk
reputational damage.
Reasons for building a diverse workforce go well beyond mere compliance with legal standards. It even goes
beyond c ommitment to ethic al standards. It’s good business. P eople with div erse b ackgrounds bring fresh
points of view that c an be in valuable in generating ideas and so lving problems. In addition, they c an be the
key to connecting with an ethnic ally diverse customer base. In short, c apitalizing on the benefits of a div erse
workforce means that employers should view differences as assets rather than liabilities.
Equity
Equity is a proc ess that ensures ev eryone has ac cess to the same opportunities. E quity appre ciates that
privileges and b arriers exist and, as a result, w e don’t all start from the same p lace. Instead, each of us c omes
from a different background. Equity is an approach that begins with acknowledging this unequal starting place
and making efforts to address and change this imbalance.1

1. General Assembly. (2020, May 24). What’s the difference between diversity, inclusion, and equity?
426 | 9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 459]
Equality versus equity
Diversity
Diversity is the presenc e, in an organization or a c ommunity, of a wide range of pe ople with diff erent
backgrounds, abilities and attributes, including ethnicity , rac e, c olour, religion, age, gender and se xual
orientation.2
Inclusion
Inclusion refers to taking into ac count differences among individuals and groups when designing something
2. Andersen, N. (2022, September 2). Enhancing inclusion, diversity, equity and accessibility (IDEA) in open educational resources (OER). University
of Southern Queensland.
9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE | 427

[Page 460]
(e.g., policy, program, curriculum, building, shared space) to avoid creating barriers. Inclusion is about people
with different identities feeling or being valued and welcomed within a given setting.3
Accessibility
A key p art of e quity is ac cessibility. Accessibility is the practic e of making inf ormation, activities, and/or
environments sensible, meaningful, and usable for as many people as possible. As an overview:4
• Accessibility is about equity
• Accessibility is about cultural practice
• Accessibility is about people
• Accessibility is about compliance
• Accessibility is about usability
• Accessibility is about context
The makeup of the Canadian w orkforce has changed dramatically over the past 50 years. In the 1950s, more
than 70 perc ent w as c omposed of males. 5
Today’s w orkforce reflects the bro ad range of diff erences in the
population—differences in gender, rac e, ethnicity, age, p hysical ability, religion, e ducation, and lif estyle. A
diverse workforce benefits organizations by supplying a broad range of viewpoints ne cessary to compete in a
globalized marketplace. Such variety promotes creative problem solving with improved results. Products and
services need to c ater to customers and clients with div erse backgrounds, and if a c ompany’s workforce does
not understand the nuances of different cultural needs, it may be missing some opportunities.
Unfortunately, a div erse workforce can have its obstacles. Diff erences in culture, age, religion, and se xual
orientation c an c reate misunderstandings and c onflict, ev en o ver the most w ell-intentioned beha viours.
Therefore, it is important that emp loyers pro vide effective div ersity training f or their emp loyees. It is also
important for co-workers to look at situations from a perspe ctive different from their o wn. Modifications to
workplace practic es, po licies or proc edures, such as fle xible sche duling, v oluntary substitutions, sw aps, job
reassignments and lateral transfers, are a few examples of how an employer might accommodate an employee’s
religious beliefs, practices and observances.
3. Andersen, N. (2022, September 2). Enhancing inclusion, diversity, equity and accessibility (IDEA) in open educational resources (OER). University
of Southern Queensland.
4. SeeWriteHear. (n.d.) What is accessibility?
5. Usalcas, J. & Kinack, M. (2017, January 16). History of the Canadian Labour Force Survey, 1945 to 2016. Statistics Canada.
428 | 9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 461]
Corporate Indigenous Inclusion: Equity, Diversity, and
Inclusion (EDI)
Following the Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Calls to Action in 2015, corporations are
struggling to engage with Indigenous communities and knowledge systems in a manner that is
both ethical and meaningful. Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) programs are tools that are
utilized to address inequality in the workplace, including the inequities experienced by Indigenous
populations in corporate environments. EDI initiatives that are designed for Indigenous populations
in Canada must first become informed about the historic relationship between the settler
government and its First Nations, Métis, and Inuit inhabitants. Corporations attempt to address
anti-Indigenous racism within their own companies by providing opportunities for their employees
to engage with Indigenous culture, language, and art; offering financial support for Indigenous
community non-profit organizations and the advancement of Indigenous education. If EDI
principles are not sufficiently applied, corporations have established protocols and policies that are
built to do so in their place. Dr Russell Evans, an Indigenous professor at the University of Windsor,
speaks about the manner in which EDI and Indigenization serve to improve corporate culture for
Indigenous populations and other marginalized groups.
Watch the Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business “Corporate Indigenous Inclusion” video.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=320
Transcript of “Corporate Indigenous Inclusion” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available
in the video player.
Source: “Corporate Indigenous Inclusion” by University of Windsor, is licensed under CC BY-NC-ND
4.0, available in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business by Russell Evans, Michael Mihalicz, and
Maureen Sterling, licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license, except where otherwise noted.
9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE | 429

[Page 462]
Media Attributions
“Equality versus e quity” by Saskatoon Health Region, 2014, is reuse d from Chapter 4.1: What is EDI? in
Universal Design for Learning (UDL) for Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity, and Accessibility (IDEA), © Business
Faculty from Ontario Colleges and eCampusOntario Program Managers, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
430 | 9.6: INCLUSION, DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND ACCESSIBILITY (IDEA) IN THE WORKPLACE

[Page 463]
9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES
What makes a c ompany a great p lace to w ork? Ask y ourself, what w ould you want as an emp loyee? Flexible
hours, high pay, prestige, recognition, autonomy, empowerment, interesting projects, friendly colleagues, fun
events, medical benefits, or something else? W e each ha ve our o wn intrinsic and e xtrinsic motivators when
it comes to w ork. Managers need to find w ays to motiv ate employees to perf orm at a high lev el. This ma y
mean motiv ating different emp loyees in diff erent w ays. M any organizations off er sev eral perks or benefits
to employees in an attempt to satisfy the ne eds and w ants of man y different employees. Companies would
much rather make their emp loyees happ y and retain them than ha ve a c ontinuous rotation of hiring new
employees; it costs more to hire new emp loyees than it does to ke ep existing employees. Happy employees are
also shown to provide better customer service and take more interest in doing quality work. Employers strive to
provide employees with a w ork-life balance, challenging and interesting w ork, and rewards that will motiv ate
employees.
Every y ear, Great Plac e to W ork® c ompiles a list of the best p laces to w ork in Canada. Some of the
companies on the 2024 list of best w orkplaces include Cisc o, SAP, Deloitte, A TB Financial, KPMG, TD
Canada Trust, FedEx Express Canada, RBC, and Sun Life.1
Job Redesign
The average employee spends more than two thousand hours a year at work. If the job is te dious, unpleasant,
or otherwise unfulfilling, the emp loyee probably won’t be motiv ated to perf orm at a v ery high lev el. Many
companies practice a policy of job redesign to make jobs more interesting and challenging. Common strategies
include job rotation, job enlargement, and job enrichment.
Job Rotation
Specialization promotes efficiency because workers get v ery good at doing p articular tasks. The dra wback is
the tedium of repeating the same task da y in and da y out. The practic e of job rotation allows employees to
rotate from one job to another on a s ystematic basis, often but not ne cessarily cycling back to their original
tasks. A c omputer maker, f or e xample, might rotate a te chnician into the sales dep artment to inc rease the
1. Great Place to Work. (2024). Best workplaces in Canada in 2024.
9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 431

[Page 464]
employee’s awareness of customer ne eds and to giv e the employee a broader understanding of the c ompany’s
goals and operations. A hotel might rotate an ac counting clerk to the che ck-in desk for a few hours each da y
to add variety to the daily w orkload. Through job rotation, emp loyees develop new skills and gain e xperience
that increases their value to the company. The benefit of this practice is that many companies have established
rotational training programs that include sche duled rotations during the first 2–3 y ears of emp loyment.
Companies benefit because cross-trained employees can fill in for absentees, thus providing greater flexibility
in scheduling, offering fresh ideas on work practices, and becoming promotion-ready more quickly.
Job Enlargement
Instead of a job in which y ou perf ormed just one or tw o tasks, w ouldn’t y ou pref er a job that ga ve y ou
many different tasks? In the ory, you’d be less bore d and more highly motiv ated if y ou had a chanc e at job
enlargement—the policy of enhancing a job b y adding tasks at similar skill lev els. The job of sales clerk, f or
example, might be expanded to include gift-wrapping and packaging items for shipment. The additional duties
would add variety without entailing higher skill levels.
Job Enrichment
Merely expanding a job by adding similar tasks won’t necessarily “enrich” it by making it more challenging and
rewarding. Job enrichment is the practice of adding tasks that inc rease both responsibility and opportunity
for gro wth. It pro vides the kinds of benefits that, ac cording to M aslow and Herzberg, c ontribute to job
satisfaction: stimulating work, sense of personal achiev ement, self-esteem, recognition, and a chanc e to reach
one’s potential.
Consider, for example, the evolving role of support staff in the contemporary office. Today, employees who
used to be c alled “secretaries” assume many duties that w ere previously in the domain of management, such
as project coordination and public relations. Information technology has enriched their jobs because they can
now apply such skills as word processing, desktop publishing, creating spreadsheets, and managing databases.
That’s why we now use terms such as administrative assistant instead of secretary.2
Giving employees the freedom to make decisions within their roles and empowering them to take ownership
of their w ork fosters a sense of trust and responsibility . This autonom y leads to greater job satisf action and
motivation to stay with the organization.
2. Kerka, S. (1995). The changing role of support staff. Retrieved from http://www.calpro-online.org/eric/docgen.asp?tbl=archive&ID=A019
432 | 9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 465]
Work-life balance is essential for a happy and fulfilled
life
Work-Life Balance
Work-life b alance generally ref ers to a b alance
between your personal and w ork life. The goal is to
strive to ke ep that b alance so that w e are managing
stress and burnout b y fulfilling other areas of our
lives that aren’t swallowed up by work.
Building a c areer re quires a substantial
commitment of time and energy , and most pe ople
find that they aren’t left with much time f or nonwork activities. F ortunately, man y organizations
recognize the need to help employees strike a balance
between their work and their home or personal lives.
By helping employees combine satisfying careers and fulfilling personal lives, companies tend to end up with a
happier, less stresse d, and more productiv e w orkforce. The financial benefits include lo wer absente eism,
turnover, and healthcare costs.3
Flexible Work Arrangements
One way companies help emp loyees maintain a w ork-life balance is b y offering flexible work arrangements,
such as remote w ork options, flexible hours, and c ompressed workweeks, allowing employees to adjust their
schedules based on personal ne eds and pref erences. This flexibility helps emp loyees manage their time more
effectively, balancing work with family, hobbies, and other responsibilities.
The accounting firm KPMG LLP is committed to helping “employees balance work and their personal lives
through a variety of flexible work options” and has consistently made the list of Canada’s Top Family-Friendly
Employers.4
Remote Work
Remote work, also known as telecommuting, means that you regularly work from home (or from some other
3. Business Faculty from Ontario Colleges and eCampusOntario Program Managers (2018). Fundamentals of Business: Canadian Edition. eCampus
Ontario.
4. Business Faculty from Ontario Colleges and eCampusOntario Program Managers (2018). Fundamentals of Business: Canadian Edition. eCampus
Ontario.
9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 433

[Page 466]
non-work location). You’re connected to the office by computer and cell phone. You save on commuting time,
enjoy more flexible work hours, and have more opportunities to spend time with your family.
While roughly 40% of Canadian jobs c an be done from home, telew ork capacity varies substantially across
industries. F or e xample, about 85% of w orkers in financ e and insuranc e c an w ork remotely, c ompared to
only 4% of those in the agricultural fields. One challenge f or employers seeking to imp lement telework is to
accommodate the div ersity of emp loyee preferences. Around 90% of Canadians f eel as productiv e or more
productive when working from home. Approximately 41% of remote workers would prefer to work half their
weekly hours remotely.5
Telecommuting isn’t f or everyone. Working at home means that y ou have to discip line yourself to a void
distractions, such as T V, personal phone calls, and home chores and also not be imp acted by feeling isolated
from the social interaction in the workplace.
Flextime
Employers who pro vide for flextime set guidelines that allo w employees to designate starting and quitting
times. Guidelines, for example, might specify that all employees must work eight hours a day (with an hour for
lunch) and that four of those hours must be between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Thus, you could come in at 7 a.m. and
leave at 4 p.m., while coworkers arrive at 10 a.m. and lea ve at 7 p.m. With permission, you could even choose
to work from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., take two hours for lunch, and then work from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Compressed Workweeks
With compressed workweeks, rather than work eight hours a day for five days a week, you might elect to earn a
three-day weekend by working ten hours a day for four days a week.
Job Sharing
Under job sharing, two people share one full-time position, splitting the salary and benefits of the position as
each handles half the job. Often, they arrange their schedules to include at least an hour of shared time during
which they can communicate about the job.
Personal Time
Additionally, generous paid time off policies, including v acation days, parental leave, and personal time, giv e
employees the opportunity to recharge and attend to personal matters without financial stress. Employers also
5. Bush, O. (2024, November 4). Working from home statistics in Canada. Made In Ca.
434 | 9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 467]
support work-life balance by promoting wellness programs, providing access to mental health resourc es, and
fostering a w ork environment that enc ourages employees to take breaks and disc onnect from w ork outside
of business hours. Emp loyee Assistanc e Programs (EAPs) pro vide c onfidential support f or personal issues,
ranging from stress management to financial and legal advice.
Caring for Self
Both KPMG LLP and BASF Canada pro vide emp loyees with generous v acation allo wances and personal
days for employees to use in an y way they want, in addition to off ering employees comprehensive health and
dental benefit coverage programs. Both organizations also offer an Employee Assistance Program for employees
experiencing personal and/or w ork-related prob lems that ma y negativ ely affect their job perf ormance and
overall well-being. If sta ying fit makes y ou happier and more productiv e, BASF Canada off ers a $400 fitness
club subsidy , and KPMG LLP off ers the e quivalent of 1.25% of an emp loyee’s salary f or home gym
equipment.6
Parental Leave and Support
Beyond the standard maternity and p aternity leave, many companies offer extended paid parental leave for
both primary and secondary caregivers. This provides employees with time to care for their new child without
the financial strain of taking unp aid leave. New parents in Canada are guarante ed paid leave via Employment
Insurance Maternity and Parental Benefits. BASF Canada tops up these payments for new parents to 100% of
salary for up to 17 weeks. KPMG LLP further supports new parents by providing those on leave with support
in their transition back to work.
Concierge and On-Site Services
Some c ompanies off er c oncierge servic es to help emp loyees with personal tasks such as sche duling
appointments, making travel arrangements, or even organizing home services. This service allows employees to
delegate time-consuming tasks, freeing up personal time for other activities.
Some emp loyers pro vide on-site amenities like childc are servic es, dry-cleaning, fitness c entres, or ev en
grocery delivery servic es. These perks sa ve emp loyees time that w ould otherwise be spent outside of w ork,
allowing them to focus on their job and personal life.
6. Yerema, R. & Leung, K. (2018). KPMG LLP: Rec ognized as one of Ca nada’s top 100 emp loyers (2019). Retrieved from https://content.eluta.ca/
top-employer-kpmg
9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 435

[Page 468]
Dependents include children and elderly parents
Family-Friendly Programs
Moreover, many companies offer benefits that assist employees in managing family responsibilities, such as onsite childcare, family leave policies, or subsidies for childcare services.
In addition to alternative work arrangements, many employers, including KPMG LLP and BASF Canada,
offer programs and benefits designed to help employees meet family and home obligations while maintaining
busy careers. As exemplar companies, they offer the following benefits.7
Dependent Care
Caring for dependents—young children and elderly
parents—is of utmost importanc e to some
employees, but c ombining dependent-c are
responsibilities with a bus y job c an be p articularly
difficult.
Some employers provide on-site childc are, which
allows emp loyees to pop in at lunch to se e their
child. This also re duces time spent c ommuting to
and from daycare and offers peace of mind knowing
their child is nearby. Many employers provide access to backup or emergency childcare services for employees
who e xperience last-minute disruptions in their regular c are arrangements. This c an include a netw ork of
approved childcare providers or services that offer temporary care when needed. Employers may offer financial
assistance to help emp loyees c over the c ost of childc are. This c ould include subsidies, v ouchers, or a
reimbursement program that partially or fully offsets childcare expenses.
Flexible schedules, remote work, or compressed workweeks are often offered to employees with dependent
care responsibilities. These arrangements allo w employees to manage their w ork and c aregiving duties more
effectively by adjusting hours or working from home.
Employers are inc reasingly offering support f or emp loyees who c are f or aging p arents or other elderly
dependents. This c an include ac cess to elder c are resourc es, c ounselling, and ev en subsidies f or c aregiving
services.
The P ersonal Care program at KPMG LLP pro vides emp loyees with up to 50 hours of p aid time off
annually to help with a range of personal matters. They also off er emergency backup dependent care all year
round, either at a pro vider’s f acility or in the emp loyee’s home. KPMG LLP also has a W orking P arents
7. Yerema, R. & Leung, K. (2018). BASF Canada Inc.: Recognized as one of Canada’s top 100 employers (2019). Retieved from https://content.eluta.ca/
top-employer-basf-canada
436 | 9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 469]
Network and a Special Parents Network, offering support for parents raising children with physical, emotional,
and behavioural issues. Meanwhile, BASF Canada offers its employees a privately run on-site childcare facility.
Positive Work Culture
A company’s work culture is the share d set of v alues, beliefs and attitudes that guide an organization, and
is reflected in the w ay customers and emp loyees are treate d. Comp anies c reate a positiv e w ork culture b y
fostering an en vironment where emp loyees feel v alued, respe cted, and motiv ated. This is achiev ed through
clear c ommunication of organizational v alues, promoting openness and transp arency, and re cognizing
employee achievements. Emphasizing diversity, equity, and inclusion, as w ell as supporting w ork-life balance
and providing opportunities f or professional growth, also c ontributes to a positiv e atmosphere. Supportive
leadership, team c ollaboration, and a health y work environment further strengthen this culture, leading to
increased employee satisfaction, engagement, and long-term success for the organization.
Regularly re cognizing and appre ciating emp loyees’ hard w ork, c ontributions, and achiev ements boosts
morale and motiv ation. This c an be done through v erbal praise, a wards, or other f orms of re cognition,
fostering a positive workplace culture where employees feel valued.
A positiv e w orkplace culture that enc ourages open c ommunication, sets clear e xpectations about w ork
hours, and discourages an “always on” mentality also p lays a critical role in maintaining work-life balance. By
promoting a health y, supportive work environment, companies can help emp loyees achieve a better b alance
between their professional and personal lives, leading to greater job satisfaction, productivity, and overall wellbeing.
Workplace culture imp acts the types of c andidates a firm attracts f or open positions, and ha ving a strong
work culture also boosts productivity , decreases turnover and improves employee engagement. Work culture
can have a profound impact on several significant aspects of the employee experience, like individual and team
morale, w orkplace engagement and job satisf action. For e xample, e xperiencing happiness in the w orkplace
could raise employees’ productivity by 12 percent.8
Elements of Work Culture Employees Care About
Research from the MIT Sloan School of Management and CultureX based on Glassdoor data identified some
common elements of work culture that employees care most about the most:9
8. Heinz, K. (2024, May 21). What is work culture? 12 ways to build a positive environment. BuiltIn.
9. Heinz, K. (2024, May 21). What is work culture? 12 ways to build a positive environment. BuiltIn.
9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 437

[Page 470]
• Feeling respected
• Having supportive leadership
• The alignment between leaders’ actions and the company’s core values
• Benefits
• Perks and amenities
• Opportunities for learning and professional development
• Job security
People generally e xperience w orkplace culture most strongly through their emp loyers’ appro ach to
performance, recognition and celebrations and company mission and values. These foundational elements of
work culture involve making sure employees feel their individual contributions are valued and their voices are
being heard.
Toxic Work Culture
Researchers have pinpointed six key signs that a work culture is toxic:10
• Treating employees and colleagues with disrespect.
• A lack of diversity or a failure to include and promote people from all backgrounds.
• Unethical behaviour, dishonesty and false promises.
• A dog-eat-dog or cutthroat environment where employees constantly undermine or one-up each other.
• A hostile environment.
• Job insecurity and the absence of any kind of employee recognition activity
Media Attributions
“Rear View of Man Sitting on Rock by Sea” by Riccardo, used under the Pexels license.
“Girl In Red Dress Playing A wooden Blocks” by cottonbro studio, used under the Pexels license.
10. Chen, R. (2024, November 22). Positive work culture examples: How to create a supportive and engaging environment. BucketList.
438 | 9.7: RETAINING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 471]
9.8: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS
In addition to salary and w ages, compensation p ackages often include other financial inc entives, such as
bonuses and profit-sharing p lans, as w ell as benefits, such as me dical insuranc e, v acation time, sick lea ve,
and retirement accounts. Offering attractive salaries, bonuses, and comprehensive benefits packages, including
health insurance, retirement p lans, and paid time off, helps ensure that emp loyees feel valued and financially
secure, making them more likely to stay with the company.
Wages and Salaries
The largest and most important c omponent of a c ompensation package is the p ayment of w ages or salary .
Salaried employees are p aid the same amount each time they re ceive a p aycheck, while w ages can fluctuate
depending on ho w many hours an emp loyee works. The benefits of salarie d employment include ac cess to
employee benefits like health insuranc e, greater job se curity, steady p ay, higher inc ome, and better chanc es
for c areer adv ancement, while disadv antages include less fle xibility and the potential f or longer w orking
hours. Wage-based employment has advantages, including greater job flexibility and fewer working hours, and
disadvantages, including a lack of emp loyment benefits, less job se curity, fluctuating pay, lower income, and
fewer opportunities for career advancement.1
Piecework and Commissions
Sometimes it makes more sense to pay workers according to the quantity of products that they produce or sell.
Piecework pays employees based on how much work they complete. Commission is typically a percentage paid
on sales or deals closed. It’s commonly used in sales and real estate jobs.
Incentive Programs
In addition to regular p aychecks, many people receive financial rewards based on performance, whether their
1. Indeed Editorial Team. (2024, July 23). Wages vs. salary: Differences, advantages, and disadvantages. Indeed.
9.8: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS | 439

[Page 472]
own, their employer’s, or both. Other incentive programs designed to reward employees for good performance
include bonus plans and stock options.
Bonus Plans
If the company has a profitable year, and if you contributed to that success, you’ll get a bonus.
Cisco Systems Canada ’s y ear-end bonuses—annual inc ome giv en in addition to salary—are b ased on
individual and company-wide performance. If the company has a profitable year, and if you contributed to that
success, you’ll get a bonus. They refer to it as “rewarding people for their performance, not their seniority”.2
Bonus plans have become quite c ommon, and the range of emp loyees eligible for bonuses has widene d in
recent years. In the past, bonus plans were usually reserved for managers above a certain level. Today, companies
have realize d the v alue of e xtending p lans to include emp loyees at virtually ev ery lev el. The magnitude of
bonuses still favours those at the top.
Profit-Sharing Plans
An employee’s profit share is p aid annually as a perc entage of the emp loyee’s earnings and is b ased on the
company’s net profit.
Nature’s Path F oods and Canadian Tire both ha ve profit-sharing arrangements with emp loyees. Today,
many Canadian companies offer some type of profit-sharing program. Canadian Tire’s plan has long been part
of its operating principles, having been around since the late 1960s. Here’s how it works. An employee’s profit
share is p aid annually as a perc entage of the emp loyee’s earnings and is b ased on the c ompany’s net profit.
Profits in the most re cent years have averaged about 10%. Interestingly, because this profit share is p art of an
employee’s retirement savings, it is put into a deferred profit-sharing account.3
Stock-Option Plans
WestJet’s compensation plan also gives employees the right to participate in the Employee Share Purchase Plan.
This enables employees to purchase WestJet shares amounting to up to 20 per cent of their gross salary, and the
company will match their contributions. This is used as an incentive to attract and retain good people.
U.S.-based Starbucks, b y c ontrast, isn’t nearly as sele ctive in a warding stock options. At Starbucks, all
employees c an earn “Bean Stock”—the Starbucks emp loyee stock-option p lan. Both full- and p art-time
2. Cisco. (n.d.). Benefits and perks.
3. Canadian Tire. (n.d.). Distribution center careers.
440 | 9.8: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

[Page 473]
employees get Starbucks shares based on their earnings and their time with the c ompany. If the company does
well and its stock goes up , employees make a profit. CEO Ho ward Schultz believ es that Bean Stock p ays off
because employees are rewarded when the company does well, and they have a stronger incentive to add value to
the company (and drive up its stock price). Starbucks has a video explaining its employee stock option program
on this webpage.4
Benefits
Another major component of an emp loyee’s compensation package is benefits—compensation other than
salaries, hourly wages, or financial incentives. Types of benefits include the following:
• Legally required benefits (Employment Insurance, Canada Pension Plan, Workplace Safety and
Insurance Boards)
• Paid time off (vacations, holidays, sick leave)
• Insurance (health benefits, life insurance, disability insurance)
• Retirement benefits
Because Canadian health and dental plans vary, it’s difficult to know the average cost. According to MaRS, the
average annual premium works out to about 15% of p ayroll for smaller businesses or up to 30% of p ayroll for
large companies. 5
Many w orkers re ceive benefits in addition to those re quired b y la w, including vision c are, semi-priv ate
hospital stays and out-of-country medical coverage. Some companies also provide benefits to permanent parttime employees who work a minimum number of hours per week.
When designing the benefits program, emp loyers can use strategies to limit or c ontain costs in the longer
term. These may include:6
• Sharing the cost of premiums between the company and the employee
• Building deductibles into the coverage
• Considering the level of coverage, or “co-insurance” (e.g., does the employer cover 80% of dental costs, or
90%, or 100%?)
• Capping coverage at certain limits (e.g., $400 for vision care over a set period of time)
4. Starbucks. (n.d.). About bean stock.
5. Canada Life. (2021, December 1). Insights & advice.
6. MaRS. (n.d.). Employee benefits and benefits packages: What Ontario employers should know. MaRS Startup Toolkit.
9.8: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS | 441

[Page 474]
• Limiting carry-over of unused sick days
442 | 9.8: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS

[Page 475]
9.9: LOSING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES
When a valued employee quits, the loss to the employer can be serious. Not only will the firm incur substantial
costs to re cruit and train a rep lacement, but it ma y also suffer temporary de clines in productivity and lo wer
morale among remaining emp loyees who ha ve to take on hea vier workloads. Given the negativ e impact of
turnover—the permanent separation of an employee from a company—most organizations do whatever they
can to retain qualifie d emp loyees. Compensation p lays a key ro le in this eff ort: companies that don’t off er
competitive compensation packages tend to lose employees. Other factors also come into play, such as training
and development, as well as helping emp loyees achieve a satisfying w ork/non-work balance. In the f ollowing
sections, we’ll look at a few other strategies for reducing turnover and increasing productivity.1
Voluntary Employment Termination
Voluntary termination is when an employee chooses to leave their job of their own accord, without pressure
from their employer. It’s also known as voluntary resignation.
As important as such initiativ es can be, one b ad boss c an spoil everything. The w ay a person is treate d by
their manager may be the primary factor in determining whether an emp loyee stays or goes. According to the
Indeed Career Guide, employees quit for many reasons, a few of which are listed below:2
• Needing more of a challenge
• Seeking a higher salary
• Wanting to feel valued
• Seeking a better management relationship
• Moving to a new location
• Feeling conflicted with workplace policies
• Needing a better work-life balance
• Looking for more recognition
1. Smith, G. P . (2017). 5 ti ps to attr act, keep a nd motivate you r emp loyees. Retrieved from http:// www.businessknowhow.com/manage/
attractworkforce.htm
2. Indeed Editorial Team. (2024, September 9). 16 reasons why employees choose to leave their jobs. Indeed.
9.9: LOSING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 443

[Page 476]
Holding managers accountable for excessive turnover can help alleviate the “bad-boss” problem, at least in the
long run. In an y case, whenever an emp loyee quits, it’s a good idea f or someone other than the individual ’s
immediate supervisor to conduct an exit interview to find out why. Knowing why people are quitting gives an
organization the opportunity to correct problems that are causing high turnover rates.
Involuntary Employment Termination
Involuntary termination is when an emp loyer ends an emp loyee’s emp loyment without the emp loyee’s
consent. It can happen for a number of reasons, including poor performance, unprofessional behaviour, policy
violations, economic factors, and organizational changes.
While v oluntary sep arations c an c reate prob lems f or emp loyers, they’re not nearly as dev astating as the
effects of in voluntary termination on emp loyees. Losing y our job is what ps ychologists call a “significant life
change,” and it’s high on the list of “stressful life events” regardless of the circumstances. Sometimes, employers
lay off workers because revenues are do wn and they must resort to do wnsizing, cutting c osts by eliminating
jobs. Sometimes a p articular job is being p hased out, and sometimes an emp loyee has simp ly failed to me et
performance requirements.
A good practic e in managing terminations is to maintain written documentation so that emp loyers c an
demonstrate just cause when terminating an employee. If it’s a case of poor performance, the employee would
be warned in adv ance that his or her current lev el of perf ormance could result in termination and then be
permitted an opportunity to improve performance. When termination is necessary, communication should be
handled in a private conversation, with the manager explaining precisely why the action is being taken.

CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Kristin Mueller
Kristin Mueller
444 | 9.9: LOSING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 477]
As an HR freelancer, Kristin provides outsourced HR support for companies that don’t have an in-house HR
resource. Start-ups and small businesses lev erage her e xpertise to manage their HR ne eds—everything from
hiring and onboarding to performance management and compliance—at a fraction of the cost of hiring a fulltime HR professional.
Kristin takes the HR legwork off their hands, allowing companies to focus on growing their business while
ensuring they ha ve the right pe ople strategies in p lace. W ith a b ackground in both c orporate and start-up
environments, she tailors HR solutions to fit each company’s unique culture and operational needs. She is also
a proud Conestoga alumnus!
“The keys to success, in business and in life, are emotional intelligence skills and excellent communication.
Get those skills right, and everything else becomes easier.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Kristin Mueller. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Kim Majetic
Kim Majetic
Kim is the Senior Dire ctor of Human Resourc es f or Gordon F ood Servic e Canada. W ith o ver 25 y ears
of e xperience in the F ood and Bev erage industry, Kim w orked at Andrew P eller Limite d and M aple Leaf
Foods bef ore joining Gordon F ood Servic e in 2004. During her tenure, Gordon F ood Servic e has gro wn
exponentially, becoming the largest privately owned foodservice distributor in North America.
Kim ho lds an Honours degre e in Socio logy and P olitical Scienc e, a P ostgraduate degre e in Human
Resources Management, and a Certifie d Applied Positive Psychology (CAPP) certification. She is p assionate
about mental health and has dev eloped expertise in organizational dev elopment, performance management,
9.9: LOSING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES | 445

[Page 478]
employee relations, succession planning, organizational communication, strategic talent acquisition, diversity,
stewardship, and sustainability.
Kim considers herself a pro active and influential change agent who activ ely encourages the personal and
professional gro wth of all emp loyees b y promoting learning opportunities and impro ving emp loyee
engagement. She serv es as a strategic human resourc es p artner, aligning business go als with pe ople and
resources to achieve optimum business results in an inc reasingly competitive industry. Her ultimate goal is to
contribute to an organization’s success by creating a people-centric environment where employees feel valued,
motivated, and inspired to achieve greatness.
“Working in Human Resources is about fostering a culture where every employee feels valued, motivated, and
inspired. It’s incredibly rewarding to see how the strategic alignment of people and resources can drive
business success and create a thriving, inclusive environment.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Kim M ajetic. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
446 | 9.9: LOSING VALUABLE EMPLOYEES

[Page 479]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Human Resource Management (HRM) consists of all actions that an organization takes
to attract, develop, and retain quality employees.
2. A strategic HR plan lays out the steps that an organization will take to ensure that it has
the right number of employees with the right skills in the right places at the right times.
3. A job analysis identifies the tasks, responsibilities, and skills that a job entails, as well as the
knowledge and abilities needed to perform it. Managers also use the information collected
for the job analysis to prepare two documents: A job description, which lists the duties and
responsibilities of a position, and a job specification, which lists the qualifications, skills,
knowledge, and abilities needed to perform the job.
4. HR forecasting is the process of predicting how a company’s staffing needs change with
time so that it can remain prepared to operate successfully. There are three steps to
forecasting HR needs: Identify supply, predict the future needs (demand), and measure the
gap (shortage or surplus).
5. Recruiting is the process of identifying suitable candidates and encouraging them to apply
for openings in the organization.
6. Discrimination occurs when a person is treated unfairly on the basis of a characteristic
unrelated to ability.
7. Hiring internally sends a positive signal to employees that they can move up in the
company—a strong motivation tool and a reward for good performance. HR managers
generally post openings on bulletin boards (often online) or announce them in newsletters
when recruiting internally.
8. Hiring externally gives you an opportunity to bring fresh ideas and skills into the company.
In any case, it’s often the only alternative, especially if no one inside the company has just
the right combination of skills and experience. When recruiting externally, job opportunities
may be shared on social media, at job fairs, on the corporate website, and in other places.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 447

[Page 480]
9. Contingent workers are hired to supplement a company’s permanent workforce.
10. Selection is the process of determining which people in the applicant pool possess the
qualifications necessary to be successful on the job.
11. During initial screening, an applicant completes an application form and/or submits a
résumé and has a brief interview of 30 minutes or less. Following initial screening, the
applicant may be asked to take one or more tests.
12. The tool most widely used in making hiring decisions is the selection interview, an indepth discussion of an applicant’s work experience, skills and abilities, education, and career
interests.
13. In Canada, pre-employment drug testing and physical exams could be considered
discriminatory (Canadian human rights law), unless an employer can prove that there is a
bona fide occupational requirement (BFOR) for testing.
14. If applicants pass the selection interview, most firms examine their background and check
their references. References are people who will attest to your skills and abilities. The best
references are former or current employers.
15. If an applicant progresses satisfactorily through all the selection steps, a decision to hire
the person is made. Usually, for higher-level jobs or jobs within unionized environments, the
decision will be based on the test scores (if applicable) and the interview scores each
candidate obtained.
16. Initially, when an employee is hired, the organization uses an orientation program to
introduce the employee to the company’s people, policies, and procedures.
17. Even with some experience, knowledge, and skills, your new employer will still want to
provide you with training specific to the technologies, processes, and practices used by the
organization. There are many types of training, and training is very costly for employers.
Compliance training covers the standards for a healthy working environment and teaches
safety and accident prevention procedures.
18. Inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility (IDEA) are a set of practices that aim to ensure
that people from a variety of backgrounds are represented and can thrive.
19. Equity is a process that ensures everyone has access to the same opportunities.
20. Diversity is the presence, in an organization or a community, of a wide range of people with
different backgrounds, abilities and attributes, including ethnicity, race, colour, religion, age,
gender and sexual orientation.
21. Inclusion refers to taking into account differences among individuals and groups when
designing something (e.g., policy, program, curriculum, building, shared space) to avoid
creating barriers.
448 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 481]
22. Accessibility is the practice of making information, activities, and/or environments sensible,
meaningful, and usable for as many people as possible.
23. The average employee spends more than two thousand hours a year at work. If the job is
tedious, unpleasant, or otherwise unfulfilling, the employee probably won’t be motivated to
perform at a very high level. The practice of job rotation allows employees to rotate from
one job to another on a systematic basis, often but not necessarily cycling back to their
original tasks. In theory, you’d be less bored and more highly motivated if you had a chance
at job enlargement—the policy of enhancing a job by adding tasks at similar skill levels. Job
enrichment is the practice of adding tasks that increase both responsibility and opportunity
for growth.
24. Work-life balance generally refers to a balance between your personal and work life.
25. Some common alternate work arrangements embraced by employees include flextime,
compressed workweeks, job sharing, and telecommuting. In addition to alternative work
arrangements, many employers offer programs and benefits designed to help employees
meet family and home obligations while maintaining busy careers.
26. In addition to salary and wages, compensation packages often include other financial
incentives, such as bonuses and profit-sharing plans, as well as benefits, such as medical
insurance, vacation time, sick leave, and retirement accounts.
27. Formal performance appraisals are conducted on an annual or semiannual basis to discuss
and evaluate employees’ work performance.
28. 360-degree feedback ensures employees (mostly managers) get feedback from all
directions—from supervisors, reporting subordinates, coworkers, and even customers.
29. Work culture can have a profound impact on several significant aspects of the employee
experience, like individual and team morale, workplace engagement and job satisfaction.
30. Voluntary termination is when an employee chooses to leave their job of their own accord,
without pressure from their employer. It’s also known as voluntary resignation.
31. Involuntary termination is when an employer ends an employee’s employment without
the employee’s consent. It can happen for a number of reasons, including poor performance,
unprofessional behaviour, policy violations, economic factors, and organizational changes.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 449

[Page 482]
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 9: Human Resource Management [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Diversity in the Workplace. Use the Internet and visit Statistics Canada or other websites
to determine the percentages of different groups in the workforce. What did you learn? Was
there a group that was under-represented or over-represented? Why do you think that is?
Discuss your findings with your class and/or professor.
2. Best Diversity Employers. Use the Internet to research last year’s best diversity
employers. Review how the rankings were established. What were the reasons that placed
these companies on the list? From what you learned, would you want to work there? Why
or why not? Discuss your findings with your class and/or professor.
3. Job Description. Create a job description and job specification for a job of your choice, or
your professor’s. Start with a job analysis. You’ll probably need to ask your professor some
questions along the way. Share your results with your class and/or professor.
4. Contingent Worker. Use the Internet to visit an HR Recruiting Agency (e.g., Robert Half,
Kelly, Adecco, Manpower) and learn about becoming a temporary or contingent worker.
Would you like to do this to get started in your field of work? Use the Job Search feature to
look for several types of jobs that interest you. Choose your current city and one where you
would like to live. What are the advantages of being a temporary worker? What other
services does the agency offer job seekers? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
5. Starbucks Working Conditions. Use the Internet to find recent articles pertaining to
Starbucks, its employees, labour laws, or unionization. What did you learn? Is Starbucks still
one of the best companies to work for today? Who is the current CEO? What did Howard
Schultz do wrong? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
6. Staffing Agency. Locate a staffing agency (HR Recruiting Firm) near you, phone them or
450 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 483]
email, and ask for information about their recruitment and placement services. Enquire about
the processes the agency uses to register, interview, test, and place a job applicant. Does it
cost money to register? What skills must you have? What does the interview process entail?
What type of tests do they use? Do you notice similarities between the processes used by
the agency and those discussed in this chapter? Do you think you might be interested in
registering with an agency once you graduate? Why or why not? Share your findings with
your class and/or professor.
7. Wrongful Dismissal. Use the Internet to locate a recent case (within the past five years) of
wrongful dismissal at a company in Canada or the United States. Read about it and gather
some details. Determine what went wrong. Where did either the employer or the employee
make mistakes? Could this situation have been resolved earlier, before employment was
terminated? Is the employee or the employer right? What was the legal outcome?
Summarize your findings and share them with the class and/or professor.
8. Benefits and Insurance Coverage. Explore what is offered for student health insurance
plans at your college or university. How much do they cost? What is covered? Do you need
this, or are you still covered by your parents’ health insurance? If you are covered by your
parents’ plan, then you can often save on ancillary fees by letting your institution know you
are already covered by another plan. Do you think health insurance coverage is worth the
cost? Do you think only older adults need this coverage? Discuss with your class and/or
professor.
9. Management Training Programs. Use the Internet to locate one firm that provides
management training programs. Provide some details about the firm’s management program
and share your findings with your class and/or professor.
10. Employee Training. Use the Internet to locate one of the Top Companies to Work for in
your location in the world. What are the employee training practices of this company?
Research to find out if there have been issues with customers being dissatisfied. If so, were
these customers upset due to poor customer service or a lack of adequately trained
employees? If you were to work for this company, what types of training do you think you
would need or appreciate? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
11. Research Fortune Global 500 Companies. Use the Internet to locate one of the Fortune
Global 500 companies. Research answers to the following questions, then prepare a
summarized report with citations and submit it to your professor.
◦ Provide the name and headquarters of the company. Provide the locations where the
company operates.
◦ How many employees work there (overall or by geographical location)?
CHAPTER REVIEW | 451

[Page 484]
◦ What type of compensation and rewards (perks) does the company offer employees?
Benefits?
◦ Do the employees have a union? If so, gather information about the union (how many
members, where it operates).
◦ Do the company’s foreign locations manage employees differently than their Canadian
locations? Why?
◦ Have there been any employee disputes publicized over the past five years?
Self-Check Exercise – Human Resources Management Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=332#h5p-22
Additional Resources
• Human Resource Management: Explained in 10 Minutes. YouTube Video.
• Canadian Human Rights Act
452 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 485]
• Employment equity
• What is the ‘gig’ economy? YouTube Video.
• The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us. YouTube Video.
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 453

[Page 486]
454 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 487]
CHAPTER 10: FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING
CHAPTER 10: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING | 455

[Page 488]
456 | CHAPTER 10: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTING

[Page 489]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Forecasts, budgets, and financial c ontrols help in pre dicting financial c onditions, alloc ating resourc es, and
monitoring performance to ensure a company’s stability and growth.
Let us c onsider some c ompanies in the te ch industry that ha ve be en v ery suc cessful in managing their
finances. Chip designer and artificial intelligenc e juggernaut Nvidia narro wly toppe d Mic rosoft’s market
capitalization to be come the w orld’s most v aluable pub lic c ompany, less than tw o w eeks after it surp assed
Apple’s market c ap (2024). 1
Nvidia designs and sells GPUs f or gaming, c ryptocurrency mining, and
professional applications; the company also sells chip s ystems for use in vehicles, robotics, and more. Nvidia’s
Compute and Netw orking business segment, which includes artificial intelligenc e (AI), is the c ompany’s
biggest revenue generator.
Apple, Nvidia, and Microsoft are the top three global companies by that measure, each with market caps of
over $3 trillion. The w orld’s biggest companies by market capitalization are mainly tech companies, although
other sectors, such as energy , financial services, and p harmaceuticals, also make an appearanc e in the top 10.
Most of these companies generate hundreds of billions of do llars in annual revenue and are highly profitable.
However, there are a few exceptions, with the focus of investors being on future growth potential.2
This chapter covers funding sources, debt and equity financing, key financial statements, and performance
evaluation through ratio analysis.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Explore the role of financial management in strategic planning and budgeting for a
1. Pesqueno, A. (2024, June 18). NVIDIA is now the world’s most valuable company, topping Microsoft and Apple. Forbes.
2. Liberto, D. (2024, October 16). Biggest companies in the world by market cap. Investopedia.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 457

[Page 490]
company’s financial needs.
2. Explain the importance of forecasts, budgets, and financial controls to a company’s financial
health.
3. Differentiate between debt and equity financing options.
4. Examine the role of financial and managerial accounting in assessing a business’s financial
performance and decision-making.
5. Outline the functions of balance sheets, income statements, and statements of cash flows.
6. Describe how to evaluate a company’s performance using financial statements and ratio
analysis.
458 | CHAPTER PREVIEW

[Page 491]
10.1: WHAT IS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT?
Without good financial controls and planning, a company will not be able to respond to unexpected challenges
or planned expansion. Financial management involves the strategic p lanning and budgeting of short- and
long-term funds f or current and future ne eds. This ma y include activities such as in vesting, borro wing,
lending, budgeting, sa ving, and f orecasting. In most c ompanies, the financ e dep artment c omprises tw o
divisions—accounting and financial management. To remain competitive, a business must make large strategic
investments, such as buying or building a new f actory, investing in more adv anced equipment or technology.
At the same time, the business must continue to pay its monthly expenses.
There are three main types of finance: Personal finance, corporate finance, and government finance. In this
chapter, we will discuss corporate finance.
The Financial Manager’s Role
A financial manag er oversees the financial operations of a c ompany. M any financial managers ha ve
backgrounds in ac counting, banking, business management, e conomics, or financ e. In most organizations,
financial managers hold mid to upper-level roles requiring multiple years of experience. They can work in the
private or public sectors.1
Generally, a financial manager assumes ac counting responsibilities f or the c ompany and is responsib le for
planning and managing the company’s financial resources, including the following:
• Developing plans that outline the company’s short-term and long-term financial needs.
• Defining the sources and uses of funds that are needed to reach goals.
• Monitoring the cash flow of a company to ensure that obligations are paid in a timely and efficient
manner and that funds owed to the company are collected efficiently.
• Investing any excess funds so that those funds can grow and be used for future development.
• Raising capital for future growth and expansion.
A financial manager analyzes short-term and long-term money flows to optimize a firm’s profitability and make
the best use of its money. This is usually done in three steps: 1) forecasting the firm’s short-term and long-term
1. Tobin, J. (2024, October 7). What does a financial manager do? Accounting.com
10.1: WHAT IS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT? | 459

[Page 492]
financial needs, 2) developing budgets to meet those needs, and 3) establishing financial controls to see whether
the company is achieving its goals.
460 | 10.1: WHAT IS FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT?

[Page 493]
A company manager reviewing a budget
10.2: FORECASTS, BUDGETS, AND
FINANCIAL CONTROLS
Forecasts
Forecasts predict revenue, costs and expenses for a specific future period. Short-term forecasts would include
predictions for the upc oming year, while long-term f orecasts would include pre dictions for a period longer
than one year into the future. In developing forecasts, the financial manager considers many factors, including
the current and anticipated changes in government regulations, consumer trends, competitor actions, changes
in company goals, etc. and the impact these changes might have on the company’s financial situation.
Budgets
Using forecast expectations, a financial manager creates
a budget, a financial p lan that outlines the c ompany’s
planned c ash flo ws, e xpected operating e xpenses, and
anticipated rev enues. The master budget has tw o ma jor
categories: the financial budget and the operating budget.
The financial budget plans the use of assets and liabilities
and results in a proje cted balance sheet. The operating
budget helps p lan future rev enue and e xpenses and
results in a proje cted inc ome statement. Another
component of the budgeting proc ess is the capital
budget, which considers the company’s long-range plans
and outlines the e xpected financial ne eds for significant capital purchases such as real estate, manuf acturing
equipment, plant expansions, or technology. Since capital projects are often financed with borrowed money or
money raised through the sale of stocks or bonds, it is important to p lan ahead to ensure that necessary funds
are a vailable when ne eded. During the c apital budget proc ess, each dep artment in the organization puts
together a list of its anticip ated ne eds. Then, senior management and the bo ard ev aluate these ne eds to
determine what will best maximize the company’s overall growth and profitability.
10.2: FORECASTS, BUDGETS, AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS | 461

[Page 494]
Financial Controls
A financial c ontroller is responsib le f or updating financial c ontrols and o verseeing all the ac counting
activities in an organization. Financial c ontrols are proc edures and po licies that monitor and manage
financial resources to prevent errors, fraud, and optimize alloc ation. These are use d in strategic management
planning. Prev entive c ontrols a void issues, while dire ctive c ontrols guide actions. Internal c ontrols ensure
accurate reporting and compliance. Financial controls are regular checks of financial statements and processes.
The financial statements are examined to identify losses and areas of potential losses and to reduce extravagant
expenses. Financial Controls also assist in mitigating financial risks and meeting financial objectives.1
The top four internal controls that reduce fraud losses and improve detection are:
• A robust code of conduct.
• A strong internal audit department.
• Management certifications of financial statements.
• Management reviews of internal controls, processes, accounts or transactions.
Four fundamental, inter-linke d building b locks must be in p lace to ensure good practic e in financial
management. 2
• Accounting records: Every organization must keep a record of all financial transactions that take place so
they can show how funds have been used.
• Financial planning: Preparing budgets and cash flow forecasts for projects and programs and for longerterm financing strategies, to ensure successful projects and organizations.
• Financial monitoring: Using financial reports to help managers monitor the progress of their projects
and take actions to keep things on track; they are also needed for accountability to funders and external
stakeholders.
• Internal control: A system of checks and balances designed to manage risk, safeguard financial resources
from loss due to errors, theft or fraud and protect staff.
1. Khan, F. (n.d.). Financial controls. Wall Street Oasis.
2. Finance DPro Starter. (n.d.). The Finance DPro Model.
462 | 10.2: FORECASTS, BUDGETS, AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS

[Page 495]
Financial Control and Management Best Practices,
Watch the YouTube video, “Financial Control and Management Best Practices,” to gain an overview
of what the term “finance” is all about.

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=342#oembed-1
Transcript for “Financial Control and Management Best Practices” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed
captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: PM4NGOs. (2024, April 19). Financial control and management best practices [Video].
YouTube.
Media Attributions
“Woman Reading a Report” by Cedric Fauntleroy, used under the Pexels license.
10.2: FORECASTS, BUDGETS, AND FINANCIAL CONTROLS | 463

[Page 496]
10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS
To raise c apital f or business ne eds, c ompanies primarily ha ve tw o types of financing as options: e quity
financing and debt financing. Most companies use a c ombination of debt financing and equity financing,
but there are some distinct advantages to both. Equity financing carries no repayment obligation and provides
extra working capital that can be used to grow a business. Debt financing, on the other hand, does not require
giving up a portion of ownership. A company would choose debt financing over equity financing if it doesn’t
want to surrender an y part of its c ompany. A company that believes in its financials w ould not w ant to miss
out on the profits it would have to pass to shareholders if it assigned someone else equity. Which one a business
needs depends on the business go als, tolerance for risk, and ne ed for control. Many businesses in the startup
stage will pursue e quity financing, while those already estab lished and those that ha ve no problem with debt
and possess a strong credit score might pursue traditional debt financing types like business loans.1
Debt Financing
Some sources of debt financing are:2
• Term loans
• Business lines of credit
• Invoice factoring
• Business credit cards
• Personal loans, usually from a family or friend
• Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending services
• SBA (small business) loans
The ability to secure debt financing is largely based on your existing financials and creditworthiness.
1. Maverick, J. (2024, June 13). Equity financing vs. debt financing: What’s the difference? Investopedia.
2. Maverick, J. (2024, June 13). Equity financing vs. debt financing: What’s the difference? Investopedia.
464 | 10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS

[Page 497]
Equity Financing
Some sources of equity financing are:3
• Angel investors
• Crowdfunding
• Venture capital firms
• Corporate investors
• Listing on an exchange with an initial public offering (IPO)
Securing equity financing c an be simp ler than debt financing, but y ou need to ha ve an e xtremely attractive
product or financial projections, as well as be willing to surrender a portion of your company and often a good
amount of control.
Sources of Funding
Refer to Table 10.1 for a list of funding sources where businesses can secure either debt or equity financing:4
3. Maverick, J. (2024, June 13). Equity financing vs. debt financing: What’s the difference? Investopedia.
4. Daddey, F. & Newton, R. (2022). The Fundamentals of Business: British Columbia Edition 2024. Douglas College.
10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS | 465

[Page 498]
Table 10.1: Funding sources
Source Description
Big Five Banks
The big banks — Chartered Banks — in Canada, including BMO, CIBC, RBC,
Scotiabank, and TD Canada Trust, offer a large variety of banking products. Banks
can provide loans and lines of credit as well as other funding options.
Credit Unions
Credit unions are cooperative savings institutions owned by members, who often
have a common interest and receive a share of the profits. They offer almost
anything that a chartered bank offers — savings accounts and loans, chequing
accounts, home and car loans, credit cards, and even some commercial loans.
Trust Companies
A trust company safeguards property, funds, and estates entrusted to it. It may
serve as a trustee, transfer agent, and registrar for corporations, and provide other
services as well. In recent years, trust companies have declined in importance.
Online Banks
Online banks have significant advantages over their traditional counterparts. They
have developed a business model that provides customers with the best of both
worlds: low — and even no monthly fees, along with accessible customer service
administered remotely. Examples in Canada include Tangerine, EQ Bank, Neo
Financial, Simplii Financial and Manulife Bank.
Finance Companies
Finance companies are non-deposit institutions because they do not accept
deposits from individuals or provide traditional banking services, such as chequing
accounts. They do, however, make loans to individuals and businesses, using funds
acquired by selling securities or borrowed from chartered banks. Those that lend
money to businesses, such as General Electric Capital Canada Inc., are commercial
finance companies, and those that make loans to individuals or issue credit cards,
such as PCFinancial, are consumer finance companies. Some, such as General
Motors Acceptance Corporation of Canada, Ltd., provide loans to both
consumers (car buyers) and businesses (GM dealers).
Insurance Companies
Insurance companies sell protection against losses incurred by illness, disability,
death, and property damage. To finance claims payments, they collect premiums
from policyholders, which they invest in stocks, bonds, and other assets. They also
use a portion of their funds to make loans to individuals, businesses, and
government agencies. Manulife is the leading Canadian life insurance company,
and it has an international presence.
Brokerage Firms and Factoring
Companies
Companies like Commercial Capital LLC, which buy and sell stocks, bonds, and
other investments for clients, are brokerage firms (also called securities investment
dealers). A mutual fund invests money from a pool of investors in stocks, bonds,
and other securities. Investors become part-owners of the fund. Mutual funds
reduce risk by diversifying investments because assets are invested in dozens of
companies in a variety of industries, so poor performance by some firms is usually
offset by good performance by others. Mutual funds may be stock funds, bond
funds, or money market funds, which invest in safe, highly liquid securities.
Finally, pension funds, which manage contributions made by participating
employees and employers and provide members with retirement income, are also
non-deposit institutions.
466 | 10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS

[Page 499]
Venture Capital Firms
Venture Capital Firms provide private equity financing or funds to start-ups,
early-stage, and emerging companies that have been deemed to have high growth
potential or that have demonstrated high growth. Venture capital generally comes
from wealthy investors, investment banks, and other financial institutions.
However, it does not always take a monetary form; it can also be provided in the
form of technical or managerial expertise. Financing a new and untested venture
can be risky for investors who put up funds. However, the potential for
above-average returns is an attractive payoff.
Government Financial
Institutions and Granting
Agencies
The Canadian government provides funding support to businesses across the
country. This funding support comes in the form of government grants,
government loans, tax breaks, tax credits and other types of financial contributions.
A number of provincial agencies also provide funding to developing business firms
in the hope that they will provide jobs in the province. There are both federal and
provincial programs supporting the agriculture industry and providing grants to
business operations. Some examples of federal agencies include: The Business
Development Bank of Canada (BDC), the Government’s Export Development
Corporation (EDC), the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC),
the Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada (CIRNAC),
Indigenous Services Canada (ISC), and Futurpreneur Canada.
Pension Funds
A pension fund is any plan, fund, or scheme that provides retirement income in
the future to subscribers. Pension funds typically have large amounts of money to
invest and are the major investors in listed and private companies.
Overcoming Entrepreneurial Financial Challenges
While there has been an increase in the success of the Indigenous economy, Indigenous small
businesses are faced with a higher number of financial barriers than their non-Indigenous
counterparts. These institutional barriers hinder Indigenous business owners from seeking financial
aid through common avenues, whether through government programs or loans via centralized
banks. Evidence suggests that over 50% of Indigenous entrepreneurs struggle to keep their
businesses afloat due to inadequate access to debt financing. To aid First Nations, Metis and Inuit
(FNMI) businesses, Indigenous-led financial institutions such as Aboriginal Capital Corporation have
been launched, though few Indigenous entrepreneurs are cognizant of their services. Indigenous
entrepreneur Kat Pasquach emphasizes the importance of seizing every available option, and Sarah
Hopkins-Herr, founder of Three Sisters Consulting, speaks of positive experiences when seeking
financial resources to keep their businesses operational.
10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS | 467

[Page 500]
Watch the Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business video “Overcoming Entrepreneurial
Challenges.”

One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=345
Transcript of “Overcoming Entrepreneurial Challenges” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available in the video player.
Source: “Overcoming Entrepreneurial Challenges” by University of Windsor, is licensed under CC
BY-NC-ND 4.0, available in Indigenous Lifeways in Canadian Business by Russell Evans, Michael
Mihalicz, and Maureen Sterling, licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license, except where otherwise
noted.
Media Attributions
“Woman in Gray Coat Holding White Printer Paper” by RDNE Stock Project, used under the Pexels license.
468 | 10.3: BUSINESS FINANCIAL NEEDS

[Page 501]
10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING
Understanding the numbers on the organization’s balance sheet can indicate its current financial position and
show whether it’s on a tra jectory for success or f ailure. By e xamining its cash flow statement, a business c an
gain insight into ho w cash is being generate d and use d. Through reviewing its income statement, a business
can gauge how it is doing in relation to its expected performance.1
Financial accounting provides information not only to internal managers but also to pe ople outside the
organization (such as in vestors, creditors, government agencies, supp liers, employees, and labour unions) to
assist them in assessing a firm’s financial performance.
Fields of Accounting
Accountants typically work in one of two major fields.
Managerial Accounting
Management ac countants pro vide inf ormation and analysis to de cision makers inside the organization in
order to help them run it. The main obje ctive of managerial accounting is to assist the management of a
company in efficiently performing its functions: planning, organizing, directing, and controlling. Because the
information that it pro vides is intended for use by people who perform a wide v ariety of jobs, the f ormat for
reporting information is flexible. Reports are tailored to the needs of individual managers, and the purpose of
such reports is to supply relevant, accurate, and timely information that will aid managers in making decisions.
In preparing, analyzing, and communicating such information, accountants work with individuals from all the
functional areas of the organization—human resources, operations, marketing, etc.

1. Gavin, M. (2020, June 2). 5 ways managers can use finance to make better decisions. Harvard Business School Online.
10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING | 469

[Page 502]
Figure 10. 1: The role of managerial accounting. [See image description.]
Financial Accounting
A financial ac countant provides inf ormation to individuals and groups both inside and outside the
organization in order to help them assess the organization’s financial perf ormance. Their primary f ocus,
however, is on external parties. In other words, management accounting helps you keep your business running
while financial accounting tells the outside world how well you’re running it.
Financial ac counting is responsib le f or prep aring the organization’s financial statements—including the
income statement, the statement of o wners’ equity, the balance sheet, and the statement of c ash flows—that
summarize a company’s past performance and evaluate its current financial condition. If a company is traded
publicly on a stock market such as the TSX or the NASD AQ, these financial statements must be made
public, which is not true of the internal reports produced by management accountants. In preparing financial
statements, financial ac countants adhere to a set of standards or guidelines, kno wn as Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP is used mainly by companies headquartered in the U.S., while most
other c ountries, including Canada, f ollow the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These
multinational standards, which are issue d by the International Ac counting Standards Bo ard (IASB), diff er
from US GAAP in a number of important ways, but exploring these fine distinctions is not part of this chapter.
Bear in mind, ho wever, that, ac cording to most e xperts, a single set of w orldwide standards will ev entually
emerge to govern the accounting practices of both US and non-US companies.
470 | 10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING

[Page 503]
In Canada, as of 2011, the Accounting Standards Bo ard (AcSB) re quires that all pub licly ac countable
enterprises use the International Financial Reporting Standar ds (IFRS) when prep aring financial
statements. While IFRS is mandatory f or publicly owned companies, private companies can choose to use
the Canadian Generally Ac cepted Ac counting Princip les (Canadian GAAP) 2
also kno wn as Ac counting
Standards for Private Enterprises (ASPE). Users w ant to be sure that financial statements ha ve been prepared
according to IFRS or Canadian GAAP because they want to be sure that the information reported in them is
accurate. They also know that when financial statements have been prepared using the same rules, they can be
compared from one company to another.

Figure 10.2: The role of financial accounting. [See image description.]

Figures 10.1 and 10.2 illustrate the main users of management and financial ac counting and the types of
2. Quickbooks Canada Team. (2020, September 18). Understanding IFRS and GAAP. Quickbooks.
10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING | 471

[Page 504]
information produced by accountants in the tw o areas. In the rest of this chapter, w e’ll learn how to prepare
a set of financial statements and ho w to interpret them. W e’ll also discuss issues of ethics in the ac counting
community and career opportunities in the accounting profession.
Who Uses Financial Accounting Information?
The users of managerial ac counting inf ormation are pretty eas y to identify—b asically, they’re a firm’s
managers. In summarizing the outc omes of a c ompany’s financial activities o ver a spe cified period of time,
financial statements are, in eff ect, report c ards for owners and managers. They sho w, for example, whether
the c ompany made a profit and furnish other inf ormation about the firm’s financial c ondition. They also
provide some information that managers and owners can use in order to take corrective action, though reports
produced by management accountants offer a much greater level of depth.
Investors and creditors furnish the money that a company needs to operate, and not surprisingly, they want
to know how that business is performing. Because they know that it’s impossible to make smart investment and
loan decisions without accurate reports on an organization’s financial health, they study financial statements
to assess a company’s performance and to make decisions about continued investment.
Businesses are re quired to furnish financial inf ormation to a number of go vernment agencies. Pub liclyowned companies, for example, the ones whose shares are trade d on a stock e xchange, must pro vide annual
information f orms to the Canadian Se curities Administration (CSA), an organization that regulates stock
trades and which is charged with ensuring that companies tell the truth with respect to their financial positions.
Companies must also pro vide financial inf ormation to tax ation agencies, including the Canada Rev enue
Agency (CRA).
A number of other e xternal users ha ve an interest in a c ompany’s financial statements. Supp liers, f or
example, need to know if the company to which they sell their goods is ha ving trouble paying its bills or ma y
even be at risk of going under. Employees and labour unions are interested because salaries and other forms of
compensation are dependent on an employer’s performance.
Media Attributions
“Figure 10.1: The Role of Managerial Accounting” is reused from The role of managerial accounting.
by Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0, and includes woman, manager, and manager, used under the Noun
Project license.
“Figure 10.2: The Role of Financial Accounting” is reused from The role of financial accounting.
Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0, and includes woman and manager, used under the Noun Project license.
472 | 10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING

[Page 505]
Image descriptions
Figure 10.1
A concept diagram illustrating the ro le of a management ac countant in an organization. At the top , there
is a silhouette of a person s ymbolizing the management ac countant, with the c aption “supp ly financial
information to answ er internal questions and make de cisions.” Belo w, tw o groups labelle d “Owners ” and
“Managers” are depicte d with silhouettes of pe ople. Both groups ha ve thought bubb les sho wing different
questions they might ha ve. The o wners on the left ask, “Should w e sell some of our assets this y ear?” The
managers on the right ha ve tw o thought bubb les asking, “Can w e aff ord to e xpand c apacity this y ear?”
and “Did our pric es optimize our profits?” Arro ws connect the management ac countant to the o wners and
managers, suggesting the flow of information.
[back to figure]
Figure 10.2
A c oncept diagram illustrating the ro le of a financial ac countant and their interactions with v arious
stakeholders. In the c enter, a silhouette of a person labelle d “Financial Ac countant” is sho wn inside a large
circle, with text stating their role: “Supply financial information to answer internal and external questions and
make decisions.” Arrows extend from the accountant to five different groups: Owners, Investors and creditors,
Employees, Government Agencies, and M anagers. Each group is represente d by a figure in silhouette with a
speech bubble indicating their primary concern or question. Owners ask about profits, Investors and creditors
inquire about rev enues, Employees are c oncerned with pension fund c ontributions, Government Agencies
question the accuracy of company information reporting, and Managers are interested in dividends and raises.
[back to figure]
10.4: THE ROLE OF ACCOUNTING | 473

[Page 506]
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
The Three Basic Financial Statements
Since this book is at an introductory level, the focus will remain on the b asic financial statements: the income
statement, b alance she et, and c ash flo w statement, ev en though there are man y other types of financial
statements. Later in y our business studies, when y ou complete accounting, finance, management and other
courses, you will learn more about these concepts.
The three core financial statements include:
• Income Statement: Shows revenues, expenses, and whether the business made a profit over a specific
period of time.
• Balance Sheet: Shows assets, liabilities, and equity or the amount invested in a business at a specific
point in time.
• Statement of Cash Flows: Shows how much cash is coming in and going out of the business over a
specific period of time.
Connor’s Confections
Meet Connor. He operates a business out of his home, “Connor’s Confections”. He loves what he
does, and he feels that he’s doing pretty well. In fact, he has an opportunity to take over a nearby
store at very reasonable rent, and he can expand by getting a modest bank loan and investing
some more of his own money. So, it’s decision time for Connor. He knows that the survival rate for
start-ups isn’t very good, and before taking the next step, he’d like to get a better idea of whether
he’s actually doing well enough to justify the risk.
Figure 10.3 shows the information Connor will obtain by analyzing the three basic financial
474 | 10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

[Page 507]
statements: the Income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash flows. Connor’s income
was better than expected as it grew very fast this past year after he opened the option for
customers to order online and have confections shipped to their homes. While the shipping costs
could be high, depending on shipping location, Connor opted for customer-paid shipping, and he
already had a business website, so he had few additional expenses from opening the online
ordering option to customers.
Although Connor is nervous about expansion because he knows that as a sole proprietor, he will be
liable for all expenses, he has decided he has enough equity in the business that he can afford the
risk of expansion. Go Connor!

Figure 10.3: Income statement, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows. [See image description.]
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 475

[Page 508]
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=352#h5p-23
Toying with a Business Idea
To bring this concept closer to home, let’s assume that you need to earn money while you’re in college and that
you’ve decided to start a small business. Your business will involve selling stuff to other college students, and to
keep things simple, we’ll assume that you’re going to operate on a “ cash” basis: you’ll pay for everything with
cash, and everyone who buys something from you will pay in cash.
You ma y ha ve at least a little c ash on y ou right no w—some currenc y, or p aper money , and c oins. In
accounting, however, the term cash refers to more than just paper money and coins. It also refers to the money
that you have in chequing and savings accounts and includes items that you can deposit in these accounts, such
as money orders and different types of cheques.
Your first task is to de cide exactly what y ou’re going to sell. Y ou’ve noticed that with homew ork, exams,
social commitments, and the he ctic lifestyle of the a verage college student, y ou and most of the pe ople you
know always seem to be under a lot of stress. Sometimes y ou wish you could just lie b ack between meals and
bounce a ball off the wall. And that’s when the idea hits y ou: Maybe you could make some money b y selling
a product called the “Stress-Buster Play Pack.” Here’s what you have in mind: you’ll buy small toys and other
fun stuff—instant stress relievers—at a local dollar store and p ack them in a rainbo w-colored plastic treasure
chest labelled “Stress-Buster.”
And here’s where y ou stand: You have enough c ash to buy a month’s w orth of p lastic treasure chests and
toys. After that, y ou’ll use the c ash generated from sales of Stress-Buster Pla y Packs to replenish your supply.
Each plastic chest will cost $2.00, and you’ll fill each one with a variety of five simple toys, all of which you can
buy for $1.00 each.
You plan to sell each Stress-Buster Pla y Pack for $10 from a rente d table stationed outside a ma jor dining
hall. Renting the tab le will cost you $20 a month. In order to make sure y ou can complete your schoolwork,
you decide to hire fellow students to staff the table at peak traffic periods. They’ll be on duty from noon until
2:00 p.m. each weekday except Fridays, and you’ll pay them a generous $17.50 an hour. Wages, therefore, will
cost you $560 a month (2 hours × 4 da ys × 4 w eeks = 32 hours × $17.50). Finally , you’ll publish ads in the
476 | 10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

[Page 509]
college newspaper at a monthly cost of $40. Thus, your total monthly costs will amount to $620 ($20 + $560
+ $40).
The Income Statement
Let’s say that during your first month, you sell 220 play packs. Not bad, you say to yourself, but did I make a
profit? To find out, you prepare an income statement showing revenues, or sales, and e xpenses—the costs of
doing business. You divide your expenses into two categories:
• Cost of goods sold: The total cost of the goods that you’ve sold
• Operating expenses: The costs of operating your business, except for the costs of things that you’ve
sold.
Now you need to do some subtracting:
The difference between sales revenue and the c ost of goods so ld is your gross profit, also kno wn as gross
margin. The difference between gross profit and operating expenses is your net income or profit, which is the
proverbial “bottom line.”
Your income statement f or the first month is sho wn in Figure 10.4. (Remember that w e’ve made things
simpler by handling everything in cash.)
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 477

[Page 510]
Figure 10.4: Income statement — end of the first month of operations
Stress-Buster Company
Income Statement
Month Ended April 30, 2025
Sales Income (220 x $10.00) $ 2200
Less Cost of Goods Sold (220 x $7) 1540
Gross Profit (220 x ($10 – $7)) $ 660
Less Operating Expenses
Salaries $ 560
Advertising 40
Table rental 20
Total Operating Expenses $ 620
Net Income (Profit) ($660-$620) $ 40
Did you make any money? Not in your first month. Many businesses operate at a net loss when they first open.
It takes time to build a customer f ollowing and begin to earn profits. Human resourc es is one of the highest
expenses for many companies. If you could run your business without the need to hire others, how much profit
would you have made?
What does your income statement tell you? It has provided you with four pieces of valuable information:
• You sold 220 units at $10 each, bringing in revenues or sales of $2,200.
• Each unit that you sold cost you $7, at $2 for the treasure chest plus five toys costing $1 each. So, your
cost of goods sold is $1540 (220 units × $7 per unit).
• Your gross profit—the amount left after subtracting the cost of goods sold from sales—is $660 (220
units × $3 each).
• After subtracting operating expenses of $620 – the costs of doing business other than the cost of
products sold—you generated a net income of $40.
478 | 10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

[Page 511]
The Balance Sheet
The balance sheet shows the cumulative effect of the income statement over time.
Companies prepare financial statements on at least a twelve-month basis—that is, for a fiscal year which ends
on December 31 or some other logic al date, such as June 30 or September 30. Fisc al years can vary because
companies generally pick a fisc al-year end date that c oincides with the end of a peak selling period; thus, a
crabmeat processor might end its fiscal year in October, when the crab supply has dwindled. Most companies
also produce financial statements on a quarterly or monthly basis.
A balance sheet reports the following information:
• Assets: The business resources from which it expects to gain some future benefit (what the company
owns)
• Liabilities: The business debts that it owes to outside individuals or organizations (what the company
owes to others)
• Owner’s equity: The investment the owner(s) made in the business (the difference between assets and
liabilities)
Your income statement tells y ou how much inc ome you earned over some period of time, but y our balance
sheet tells you what you have at a specific point in time.
Debits, Credits and Double-Entry Accounting
It’s important to mention that debits and c redits are use d in a c ompany’s boo kkeeping in order f or its
books to balance. Debits increase asset or expense accounts and decrease liability, revenue or equity accounts.
Credits do the rev erse of debits, they de crease asset or e xpense ac counts and inc rease liability, rev enue or
equity accounts. The individual entries on a b alance sheet are referred to as debits and c redits. Debits (often
represented as DR) record incoming money, while credits (CR) record outgoing money. How these show up
on your balance sheet depends on the type of account they correspond to. In double-entry accounting, every
transaction is re corded with a debit and c redit in tw o or more ac counts, which c ategorize different types of
financial activities in a company’s general ledger. You will put these concepts into practice when you complete
your first accounting course.
For Stress-Buster, you’ll want to prepare them monthly to sta y on top of ho w your new business is doing.
Let’s prepare a balance sheet at the start and end of your first month in business.
The Accounting Equation
To prepare a balance sheet, one must first understand the fundamental accounting equation:
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 479

[Page 512]
Assets = Liabilities + Owner’s Equity
This simp le but important e quation highlights the f act that a c ompany’s assets c ome from
somewhere—either from in vestments made b y the o wners (owners’ equity) or from lo ans (liabilities). This
means that the asset se ction of the b alance she et, on the one hand, and the liability and o wner’s e quity
section, on the other, must be e qual, or balanced. Thus, the term balance sheet. The Accounting Coach has a
comprehensive online tutorial that you may wish to review.
Let’s prepare the two balance sheets we mentioned—one for the first day you started and one for the end of
your first month of business. We’ll assume that when you started Stress-Buster, you borrowed $400 from your
parents and put in $200 of y our own money. If y ou refer to Figure 10.5, y our business’s first balance sheet,
you’ll find that your business has $600 in cash (your assets). Of this total, you borrowed $400 (your liabilities)
and invested $200 of your own money (your owner’s equity). So far, so good, your assets section balances with
your liabilities and owner’s equity section.
Figure 10.5: Balance sheet — as of April 1, 2025, the first day of operations.
Stress-Buster Company
Balance Sheet
As of April 1, 2025
Assets
Cash $ 600
Liabilities and Owner’s Equity
Liabilities $ 400
Owner’s Equity 200
Total Liabilities and Owner’s Equity $ 600
Now let’s see how things have changed on the balance sheet by the end of the month. Re call that the income
statement showed a net income of $40 during the month of April (the first month in operation). The $40 gain
increases two items on your balance sheet—the assets of the c ompany (its cash) and your investment in it (its
owner’s equity). Figure 10.6 shows what your balance sheet will look like on April 30. You now have $640 in
cash—$400 that you borrowed, plus a positive amount you invested of $240 (y our original $200 in vestment
plus the gain of $40 from the first month of operations).
480 | 10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

[Page 513]
Figure 10.6: Balance sheet — as of April 30, 2025 the last day of the first month of operations.
Stress-Buster Company
Balance Sheet
As of April 30, 2025
Assets
Cash (original $600 plus $40) $ 640
Liabilities and Owner’s Equity
Liabilities $ 400
Owner’s Equity ($200 invested by owner plus $40) 240
Total Liabilities and Owner’s Equity $ 640
The Statement of Cash Flows
The statement of cash flows provides valuable information about a company’s expenses and receipts and allows
insights into its future income needs in order to be ab le to meet its future obligations (expenses and receipts).
The statement of c ash flows reports c ash inflows and outflo ws, and it will identify the amount of c ash the
company currently holds, which is also reported in the balance sheet.
Typically, the statement of cash flows is reported on a month-to-month basis. However, a statement of cash
flow will consolidate the month-to-month c ash flow to meet the requirements of the International Financial
Reporting Standards.
A statement of cash flow reports cash in three distinct areas of business:
• Cash from Operations
• Cash from Investing
• Cash from Financing
Refer to Figure 10.7 to review the statement of cash flows for Stress-Buster company for the one-month period
ending April 30, 2025. Stress-Buster w ould have incurred a Net Inc ome of $40 from Operations during the
first month of operation, after deducting the month’s expenses from the month’s revenues. The business also
incurred cash from financing the initial $400 lo an taken out to start the business and the additional $200 of
personal income. As Stress-Buster did not invest in new equipment, machinery or other assets for the business
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 481

[Page 514]
or use prior c ash flows and/or retaine d earnings to earn further in vestment income, Stress-Buster would not
report any cash from investing activities.
Figure 10.7: Statement of cash flows — end of the first month of operations.
Stress-Buster Company
Statement of Cash Flows
Month Ended April 30, 2025
Beginning Cash $ 0
Operating Activities 40
Net Income from Operations (Sales) $ 40
Investing Activities 0
Financing Activities $ 600
Increase in Short-Term Debt $ 400
Increase in Retained Earnings $ 200
Ending Cash Balance (Net Change) $ 640
Media Attributions
“Figure 10.3: Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Statement of Cash Flo ws” is adapte d from Chapter 10:
Financial Management and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under
CC BY-NC-SA.
“Figure 10.4: Income Statement End of First M onth” is adapted from Chapter 10: Financial Management
and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
“Figure 10.5: Balance Sheet First Day of Operations” is adapted from Chapter 10: Financial M anagement
and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
“Figure 10.6: Balanc e She et End of First M onth of Operations ” is adapte d from Chapter 10: Financial
Management and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BYNC-SA.
“Figure 10.7: Statement of Cash Flo w After First M onth” is adapte d from Chapter 10: Financial
482 | 10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

[Page 515]
Management and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st Edition, © Kerri Shields, licensed under CC BYNC-SA.
Image descriptions
Figure 10.3
The image features a small illustration of a storefront labelle d “Connor’s Confections.” The storefront has a
light blue awning and an “OPEN” sign hanging in its window. Above it, there are three boxes, each containing
a title and bulleted text:
Left box: Income Statement As of: December 31, 2024
• Sales
• Expenses
• Profit
Centre box: Balance Sheet As of: December 31, 2024
• Assets
• Liabilities
• Owner’s Equity
Right box: Statement of Cash Flows As of: December 31, 2024
• Additions to Cash this year
• Subtractions from Cash this year
[back to figure]
10.5: THE FUNCTION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | 483

[Page 516]
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS
Now that y ou know a bit about financial statements, let’s se e how they’re use d to help o wners, managers,
investors, and c reditors assess a firm’s perf ormance and financial strength. Y ou c an glean a w ealth of
information from financial statements, but first, you need to learn a few basic principles for “unlocking” it.
Trend Analysis from the Income Statement
A trend analysis is done b y c ollecting data at sele cted times and then p lotting an y observ ed changes o ver
longer periods. A trend analysis e xamines the factors that drive business success. The analysis is use d to make
projections f or the future, identify areas that ne ed attention from managers, and benchmark the business
against others in the industry. Some of the most common operating factors tracked in trend analysis include
gross margin, sales (in units/do llars), earnings bef ore interest and tax es (EBIT), earnings per c ommon share
(EPS), stock price, etc. The most common line items on the balance sheet included in a trend analysis are total
assets, total liabilities, total shareholder equity, debt-to-equity ratio, current ratio, and acid test ratio.1
Refer to Figure 10.8, which is an abbreviate d financial statement f or a highly suc cessful, long-established
fictitious multinational technology company called InnoTech Inc. for the year 2025. You will note that instead
of showing only the current y ear’s results, the c ompany has sho wn data f or the prior y ear as w ell. From this
relatively simple exhibit, considerable information about InnoTech’s performance can be obtained.
For example:
• InnoTech sales grew at 12.7% from 2024 to 2025, which is not bad for a company with such a large base
of sales already, but certainly not the rapid-growth company it once was. Making yearly comparisons is
commonly referred to as performing a horizontal analysis.
• Net income as a percent of sales (a ratio also known as return on sales) was 22.7% in 2025, or in other
words, for every $5 in sales, InnoTech turned more than $1 of it into profit. That is substantial! When
calculating ratios as a percent of a larger figure (i.e., net income as a percent of sales, or cash as a percent
of total assets). This is commonly referred to as performing a vertical analysis.
1. BDC. (n.d.) Trend analysis.
484 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 517]
Many other calculations are possible from InnoTech Inc.’s data, and w e will look at a few more as we explore
ratio analysis.
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS | 485

[Page 518]
Figure 10.8: InnoTech Inc. consolidated statements of operations (income statement)
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)
Three Months Ended
December 30,
December 31,
Net sales $ 88,293 $ 78,351
Cost of sales
(1)
54,381 48,175
Gross margin 33,912 30,176
Operating expenses:
Research and development (1)
3,407 2,871
Selling, general and administrative (1)
4,231 3,946
Total operating expenses 7,638 6,817
Operating income 26,274 23,359
Other income/(expense), net 756 821
(1) Includes share-based compensation expense as follows:
Cost of sales $ 252 $ 229
Research and development $ 646 $ 589
Selling, general and administrative $ 398 $ 438
486 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 519]
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)
Three Months Ended
December 30,
December 31,
Income before provision for income taxes 27,030 24,180
Provision for income taxes 6,965 6,289
Net income $ 20,065 $ 17,891
Earnings per share:
Basic $ 3.92 $ 3.38
Diluted $ 3.89 $ 3.36
Shares used in computing earnings per share:
Basic 5,112,877 5,298,661
Diluted 5,157,787 5,327,995
(1) Includes share-based compensation expense as follows:
Cost of sales $ 252 $ 229
Research and development $ 646 $ 589
Selling, general and administrative $ 398 $ 438
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS | 487

[Page 520]
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and per share amounts)
Three Months Ended
December 30,
December 31,
Cash dividends declared per share $ 0.63 $ 0.57
(1) Includes share-based compensation expense as follows:
Cost of sales $ 252 $ 229
Research and development $ 646 $ 589
Selling, general and administrative $ 398 $ 438
Ratio Analysis
How do y ou compare InnoTech’s financial results, sho wn in Figure 10.9, with those of other c ompanies in
your industry or with the other companies whose stock is available to investors? And what about your balance
sheet? Are there relationships in this statement that also warrant investigation? These issues can be explored by
using ratio analysis, a technique for evaluating a company’s financial performance.
Remember that a ratio is just one number divide d by another, with the result e xpressing the relationship
between the two numbers. It’s hard to learn much from just one ratio, or even a number of ratios covering the
same period. Rather, the de eper value in ratio analysis lies in loo king at the trend of ratios o ver time and in
comparing the ratios for several time periods with those of other c ompanies. There are a number of diff erent
ways to categorize financial ratios.
488 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 521]
Figure 10.9: InnoTech Inc. consolidated statements of operations (balance sheet)
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and par value)
December 30,
December 30,
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 27,491 $ 20,289
Short-term marketable securities 49,662 53,892
Accounts receivable, less allowances of $59 and $58,
respectively 23,440 17,874
Inventories 4,421 4,855
Vendor non-trade receivables 27,459 17,799
Other current assets 11,337 13,936
Total Current Assets 143,810 128,645
Long-term marketable securities 207,994 194,714
Property, plant and equipment, net 33,679 33,783
Goodwill 5,889 5,717
Acquired intangible assets, net 2,149 2,298
Other non-current assets 13,323 10,162
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS | 489

[Page 522]
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and par value)
December 30,
December 30,
Total Assets $ 406,794 $ 375,319
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Current liabilities:
Accounts payable $ 62,985 $ 49,049
Accrued expenses 49,662 53,892
Deferred revenue 23,440 17,874
Commercial paper 4,421 4,855
Current portion of long-term debt 27,459 17,799
Total current liabilities 115,788 100,814
Deferred revenue, non-current 3,131 2,836
Long-term debt 103,922 97,207
Other non-current liabilities 43,754 40,415
Total liabilities $ 266,595 $ 241,272
Commitments and contingencies
490 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 523]
InnoTech Inc.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In millions, except number of shares, which are reflected in thousands and par value)
December 30,
December 30,
Shareholders’ equity:
Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.00001 par
value: 12,600,000 shares authorized; 5,081,651 and
5,126,201 shares issued and outstanding, respectively 36,447 35,867
Retained earnings 104,593 98,330
Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (841) (150)
Total shareholders’ equity: 140,199 134,047
Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity: $ 406,794 $ 375,319
Here’s one set of categories:
• Profitability ratios tell you how much profit is made relative to the amount invested (return on
investment) or the amount sold (return on sales).
• Liquidity ratios tell you how well positioned a company is to pay its bills in the near term. Liquidity
refers to how quickly an asset can be turned into cash. For example, shares of stock are substantially
more liquid than a building or a machine.
• Debt ratios look at how much borrowing a company has done in order to finance the operations of the
business. The more borrowing, the more risk a company has taken on, and so the less likely it is that new
lenders will approve loan applications.
• Efficiency ratios tell you how well your assets are being managed.
We could employ many different ratios, but we’ll focus on a few key examples.
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS | 491

[Page 524]
Profitability Ratios
Profitability ratios include gross profit margin, net profit margin, and return on e quity. Earnings per share
(EPS) is a measure of a c ompany’s profitability that indic ates ho w much profit each outstanding share of
common stock has earne d. It’s c alculated b y dividing the c ompany’s net inc ome b y the total number of
outstanding shares. The higher a company’s EPS, the more profitable it is considered to be. Earlier, we looked
at the return on sales for InnoTech Inc., and now we will look at its EPS. According to the earlier Figures 10.8
and 10.9, InnoTech Inc. saw its EPS increase from $3.38 in 2024 to $3.92 in 2025, which indic ates a profit of
about 15%, an excellent return for a company that is considered to be already among the world’s largest. Wellpaid analysts will spend hours to understand ho w these results were achieved every time InnoTech issues new
financial statements.
Liquidity Ratios
A liquidity ratio is a type of financial ratio use d to determine a c ompany’s ability to p ay its short-term debt
obligations. The metric helps determine if a c ompany can use its current, or liquid, assets to c over its current
liabilities. Liquidity ratios are one element of measuring the financial strength of a c ompany. A key liquidity
ratio is called the current ratio. It simply examines the relationship between a company’s current assets and its
current liabilities. On December 30, 2025 (remember that balance sheets reflect a point in time), InnoTech Inc.
had $68.5 billion in current assets and $63.5 billion in current liabilities. Simply put, this means that InnoTech
Inc. has more money on hand than they ne ed to pay their bills. When a c ompany has a current ratio greater
than 1, they are in good shape to p ay its bills; companies selling to InnoTech Inc. on credit would not need to
worry that it is likely to run out of money.
InnoTech Inc.’s current ratio = $68.5 Billion / $63.5 Billion = 1.08 (greater than >) 1
Now, let’s look quickly at something that is not p art of the ratio; loo k down one line on the b alance sheet
to long-term marketable securities and see that InnoTech Inc. owns $207.9 billion. While they are long-term
and so not part of the current ratio, these securities are still easily convertible to cash. So, InnoTech Inc. has far
more cushion than the current ratio reflects, even though it already reflects a healthy financial position.
Debt Ratios
A key debt ratio, which tells us ho w the company is financed, is the debt-to-equity ratio, which calculates the
relationship between funds acquired from creditors (debt) and funds invested by owners (equity). For this ratio
calculation, we use InnoTech Inc.’s total liabilities, not just the line on the b alance sheet that sa ys long-term
debt, because in effect, InnoTech Inc. is borro wing from those it o wes but has not y et paid. InnoTech Inc.’s
total liabilities at the end of 2025 w ere $266.6 billion v ersus owner’s equity of $140.2 billion, a ratio of 1.9,
which means InnoTech Inc. has borrowed more than it has invested in the business.
492 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 525]
InnoTech Inc.’s debt-to-equity ratio: $266.6 / $140.2 billion = 1.9
To some in vestors, that high lev el of debt might se em alarming. But remember that InnoT ech Inc. has
invested $207.9 billion in marketab le securities. If it wishe d to do so , InnoTech Inc. could sell some of those
securities and pay down its debts, thus improving its ratio. It’s likely that anyone thinking about lending money
to InnoTech Inc. and se eing these figures w ould be c onfident that InnoTech Inc. has the ability to p ay back
what they borrow.
Efficiency and Effectiveness Ratios
Efficiency ratios include the inventory turnover ratio, asset turnover ratio, and receivables turnover ratio. These
ratios measure ho w efficiently a c ompany uses its assets to generate rev enues and its ability to manage those
assets.
There are man y more ratios that w e could app ly to InnoT ech Inc. to understand its perf ormance more
completely. Yet going deeper into ratios would be beyond the scope of an introductory business course. If you
continue your study of business, y ou will get amp le exposure to these ratios in y our accounting and finance
courses. So, we’ll leave the rest for another day.

CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Amanda Buck
Amanda Buck
Amanda Buck, CFP®, is a Financial Advisor at E dward Jones b ased in W oodstock, Ontario . Raise d in a
hardworking, entrepreneurial family with a deep commitment to community service, she learned the value of
a strong work ethic and the importanc e of a c areer that fosters passion while giving b ack to others. Amanda
graduated from Conestoga Co llege’s Business Administration —Financial Planning program in 2022 and
earned her CFP® designation in 2024. She is dedicated to understanding her clients’ immediate and long-term
needs, tailoring her financial advic e and p lans to prote ct what matters most to them and help them achiev e
10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS | 493

[Page 526]
their future go als. Her e xpertise covers retirement p lanning, wealth transfer, education planning, and f amily
protection.
“Many investors dive into the market without a clear financial plan or defined goals. It’s like jumping into a
moving car without a map or destination in mind. Investments are just one small piece of the larger financial
picture. Having a solid financial plan can ease uncertainty and help you build confidence in your future. Grab
your roadmap and start planning how you’ll reach your financial destination.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Amanda Buck. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
Media Attributions
“Figure 10.8: InnoT ech Inc. Conso lidated Statements of Operations (Inc ome Statement)” is adapte d from
Chapter 10: Financial M anagement and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st E dition, © Kerri Shields,
licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
“Figure 10.9: InnoT ech Inc. Conso lidated Statements of Operations (Balanc e She et)” is adapte d from
Chapter 10: Financial M anagement and Accounting in Business Fundamentals, 1st E dition, © Kerri Shields,
licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
494 | 10.6: FINANCIAL STATEMENT ANALYSIS

[Page 527]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Financial management involves the strategic planning and budgeting of short- and longterm funds for current and future needs. This may include activities such as investing,
borrowing, lending, budgeting, saving, and forecasting. In most companies, the finance
department comprises two divisions—accounting and financial management.
2. There are three main types of finance: personal finance, corporate finance, and government
finance. In this chapter, we will discuss corporate finance.
3. Financial managers analyze short-term and long-term money flows to optimize a firm’s
profitability and make the best use of its money.
4. Forecasts predict revenue, costs and expenses for a specific future period. Short-term
forecasts would include predictions for the upcoming year, while long-term forecasts would
include predictions for a period longer than one year into the future.
5. A budget is a financial plan that outlines the company’s planned cash flows, expected
operating expenses, and anticipated revenues.
6. The financial budget plans the use of assets and liabilities and results in a projected balance
sheet.
7. The operating budget helps plan future revenue and expenses and results in a projected
income statement.
8. The capital budget considers the company’s long-range plans and outlines the expected
financial needs for significant capital purchases such as real estate, manufacturing
equipment, plant expansions, or technology.
9. Financial controls are procedures and policies that monitor and manage financial resources
to prevent errors, fraud, and optimize allocation.
10. Financial controllers are responsible for updating financial controls and overseeing all the
accounting activities in an organization.
11. Equity financing carries no repayment obligation and provides extra working capital that
CHAPTER REVIEW | 495

[Page 528]
can be used to grow a business.
12. Debt financing, on the other hand, does not require giving up a portion of ownership.
13. Sources of Financing. There are many lenders that give out loans and lines of credit such
as the Big Five Banks, trust companies, credit unions, online banks, finance companies,
insurance companies, brokerage firms, factoring companies, venture capital firms,
government financial institutions, granting agencies, and pension funds.
14. Short-term financing means business financing from short-term sources, which are for
less than one year. There are many different types of short-term financing for businesses,
including business line of credit, working capital advance, merchant cash advance, equipment
financing, bridge loans, and invoice factoring.
15. Indigenous small businesses are faced with a higher number of financial barriers than
their non-Indigenous counterparts.
16. The main objective of managerial accounting is to assist the management of a company in
efficiently performing its functions: planning, organizing, directing, and controlling.
17. Financial accountants furnish information to individuals and groups both inside and
outside the organization in order to help them assess the organization’s financial
performance.
18. In preparing financial statements, financial accountants adhere to a set of standards or
guidelines, known as Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). GAAP is used
mainly by companies headquartered in the U.S., while most other countries follow the
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). These multinational standards,
which are issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), differ from US
GAAP in a number of important ways.
19. An income statement shows sales, expenses, and whether or not a profit was made.
20. A balance sheet shows assets and liabilities, and the amount invested in the business.
21. To prepare a balance sheet, one must first understand the fundamental accounting
equation: Assets = Liabilities + Owner’s Equity
22. A statement of cash flows or a cash flow statement shows how much cash is coming in
and going out. It provides valuable information about a company’s expenses and receipts and
allows insights into its future income needs in order to be able to meet its future obligations
(expenses and receipts).
23. Cost of goods sold is the total cost of the goods that you’ve sold.
24. Operating expenses refer to the costs of operating your business, except for the costs of
things that you’ve sold.
25. Gross profit, also known as gross margin. The difference between gross profit and
496 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 529]
operating expenses is your net income or profit, which is the proverbial “bottom line.”
26. Debits increase asset or expense accounts and decrease liability, revenue or equity accounts.
27. Credits do the reverse of debits; they decrease asset or expense accounts and increase
liability, revenue or equity accounts. The individual entries on a balance sheet are referred to
as debits and credits.
28. In Double-entry accounting, every transaction is recorded with a debit and credit in two or
more accounts, which categorize different types of financial activities in a company’s general
ledger.
29. A trend analysis is done by collecting data at selected times and then plotting any observed
changes over longer periods.
30. Profitability ratios tell you how much profit is made relative to the amount invested
(return on investment) or the amount sold (return on sales).
31. Liquidity ratios tell you how well-positioned a company is to pay its bills in the near term.
Liquidity refers to how quickly an asset can be turned into cash. For example, shares of stock
are substantially more liquid than a building or a machine.
32. Debt ratios look at how much borrowing a company has done in order to finance the
operations of the business. The more borrowing, the more risk a company has taken on, and
so the less likely it is that new lenders will approve loan applications.
33. Efficiency ratios tell you how well your assets are being managed.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 10: Financial Management and Accounting [PDF].
CHAPTER REVIEW | 497

[Page 530]
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Equity Capital and Preference Capital. Use the Internet to search for the terms, equity
capital (common shares) and preference capital (preferred shares). What do they mean?
Would you rather hold preferred shares or common shares? Is there a difference in cost
between these two types of shares? How do preference shares affect a company’s finances?
Discuss your findings with the class and/or your professor.
2. Successful Investors. Use the Internet to research some investors who are well-known for
their success in investing. Warren Buffett is one of the people we have all heard of. Can you
find a few others? What made them successful? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
3. Ratios. Identify two public companies operating in different industries. Collect at least three
years’ worth of financial statements for the firms. Calculate these financial ratios:
profitability, liquidity, and debt. Prepare a summary and share with your class and/or
professor.
4. Accounting Scandals. Use the Internet to research a recent accounting fraud scandal.
What happened? How might this have been stopped? How can companies use better
controls to stop accounting fraud? Share your findings with the class and/or teacher.
5. Debit and Credit App. Download the App, Debit and Credit – Accounting. Practice debiting
and crediting coins to learn basic accounting. Play against the world as you learn. How did
you do?
6. Accounting Flashcards App. Download the Accounting Flashcards app, which includes
translation for English, Chinese, and Spanish. Learn financial accounting using illustrated
flashcards. Topics include accounting standards, equations, terms, ratios, and more. How did
you do?
7. Government Support. Research one or more of the following government agencies and
find out what they do: The Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC), the Government’s
Export Development Corporation (EDC), the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation
(CMHC), the Crown-Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Canada (CIRNAC), Indigenous
Services Canada (ISC), and Futurpreneur Canada. Who do they support? What do they
offer? Do you think you could find help from one of these agencies if you were to start your
own business? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
498 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 531]
8. Bank Loan. Research one of the Big Five Banks and find out what they provide in the way
of business loans for a new business. What are the interest rates? Some individuals take out
loans to make investments, and then they can deduct the interest they pay on the loan on
their taxes. Do you think this is worth it? Explain. Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Financial Management and
Accounting Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=357#h5p-24
Additional Resources
• Biggest Companies in the World by Market Cap
• How Flexible Financing Can Unlock Your Business Potential
• What is Short-Term Financing?
CHAPTER REVIEW | 499

[Page 532]
• What is Equity Financing?
• How Does Debt Financing Work?
• Understanding IFRS and GAAP
• AccountingPlay.com (Apps, Quizzes, Lessons)
• 10 Accounting Games That Make Learning Fun
• Learn Accounting for Free – Accounting Coach
• Break-Even Analysis – How to Calculate Your Safe Point. YouTube Video
• Balance Sheet and Income Statement Relationship. YouTube Video
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
500 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 533]
CHAPTER 11: OPERATIONS
MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 11: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT | 501

[Page 534]
502 | CHAPTER 11: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT

[Page 535]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Operations management is all about making sure ev erything runs smoothly in a business, whether it’s
producing goods or providing services. This chapter will explain how products are made, how businesses create
value, and how they manage their resources and processes to be efficient and sustainable.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Describe how the production process creates finished products and services that provide
value and utility to buyers.
2. Explain how operations management is closely intertwined with the production process in
the manufacturing sector.
3. Show how supply chain, value chain and the circular economy are intertwined.
4. Discuss the role of the operations manager with special regard to production planning,
production control, and quality control.
5. Outline the role of production planning in manufacturing operations.
6. Elaborate upon the role of production control in manufacturing operations.
7. Explore the role of quality control in manufacturing operations.
8. List the technologies used by manufacturing organizations to produce and deliver goods in
an efficient, cost-effective manner.
9. Identify the characteristics that distinguish service operations from manufacturing
operations.
10. Outline the role of operations planning in service organizations.
11. Elaborate upon the role of operations control in service organizations.
12. Explore the role of quality control in service organizations.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 503

[Page 536]
11.1: THE PRODUCTION PROCESS
Every business that produc es goods or servic es has a spe cific production proc ess. Production refers to the
process of transforming inputs (such as labour, c apital, and ra w materials) into outputs (goods and servic es)
that a firm wishes to sell. Refer to the production transformation process in Figure 11.1.
The decisions made in the p lanning stage ha ve long-range imp lications and are c rucial to a firm’s suc cess.
Before making de cisions about the operations proc ess, managers must c onsider the go als set b y marketing
managers. Does the company intend to be a lo w-cost producer and to compete on the basis of price? Or does
it plan to f ocus on quality and go after the high end of the market? M any decisions involve trade-offs. F or
example, low cost doesn’t normally go hand in hand with high quality. All functions of the company must be
aligned with the overall strategy to ensure success.
504 | 11.1: THE PRODUCTION PROCESS

[Page 537]
Figure 11.1: The production transformation process. [See image description.]
Value
The transformation process gives the finished products and services value. Value is the customer’s perception
of the benefits they re ceive compared to the c ost or effort required to obtain the product. It is subje ctive and
influenced by factors like branding, emotional appeal, and customer e xperience. The value of the product or
service equals the ratio of the product’s benefit to its c ost (value = benefits/costs). The price you will pay for
a product or servic e often depends on the benefits it brings and the v alue it has f or you. Value is about ho w
much the product matters to the customer (subjective).
11.1: THE PRODUCTION PROCESS | 505

[Page 538]
Utility
Utility refers to the inherent usefulness or the ability of a product or servic e to satisfy a customer’s ne eds
and wants. It is often measurab le and tie d directly to functionality . Utility is about what a product c an do
(objective).
There are four types of utility:
• Time utility: Availability when needed (e.g., seasonal availability of bathing suits)
• Place utility: Accessibility (e.g., where are the goods or services available)
• Form utility: Design (e.g., does the design or structure of the the goods or services meet the needs of the
customer)
• Ownership utility: Satisfaction (e.g., benefits of ownership, functional and emotional)
Companies c an enhanc e o wnership utility b y off ering after-sales servic e, pro viding financing options,
promoting lifestyle benefits and pride of ownership, and allowing buyers to personalize the product to enhance
its appeal.
Media Attributions
“Figure 11.1: The Production Transformation Process” is reused from The transformation process.
Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0 and includes build, Computer, and Couch by Adrien Coquet; Hammer
by Nawicon; Money Bag by Nawicon; Factory by Abdul Wahhab; Handshake by Susannanova; manager by
Chrystina Angeline; and Travel by Gregor Cresnar, used under the Noun Project license.
Image descriptions
Figure 11.1
A flow chart of the production transformation process. At the top is a stylize d silhouette of a person labelle d
“Operations Manager” with arrows pointing downwards to a large rectangular box divided into three sections.
The left se ction is labelle d “Inputs ” and c ontains f our circular ic ons: a brick w all labelle d “M aterials,” a
hammer labelle d “Labour,” a b ag with a do llar sign labelle d “M oney,” and a c omputer monitor labelle d
“Information.” The middle se ction is labelle d “Transformation Processes” and includes tw o circular icons: a
factory labelled “Goods” and a handshake labelled “Services.” The right section is labelled “Outputs” with two
circular icons: a couch labelled “Products” and an airp lane labelled “Services.” Arrows point rightward from
506 | 11.1: THE PRODUCTION PROCESS

[Page 539]
“Inputs” to “Transformation Processes” and from “Transformation Processes” to “Outputs” and indicate how
inputs are transformed into outputs.
[back to figure]
11.1: THE PRODUCTION PROCESS | 507

[Page 540]
11.2: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR
MANUFACTURING
Operations management is a vital component of any business, encompassing the practices, techniques, and
tools that organizations use to produc e and deliv er goods and servic es efficiently and effectively. Whether in
manufacturing or servic e industries, operations management p lays a c rucial ro le in building a c ompetitive
edge and driving long-term suc cess.1
Employing proficient staff, ensuring operations are ethic al and safe, and
choosing strategic locations are important for maintaining operational excellence.
Operations management and the production proc ess are closely intertwine d, as operations management
oversees and optimizes the production process to ensure efficiency, quality, and value creation.
Here’s how they relate:
• Planning the production process. Operations management involves determining the resources, steps, and
timelines needed to produce goods or services. This planning phase aligns production goals with
business objectives, ensuring resources like labour, materials, and machinery are used effectively.
• Resource allocation. The production process requires inputs such as raw materials, labour, and
technology. Operations management allocates these resources to minimize waste and optimize
productivity, considering costs and demand forecasts.
• Process optimization. Operations managers analyze the production process to identify bottlenecks,
inefficiencies, or areas for improvement. They implement techniques like lean manufacturing, Six
Sigma, or Total Quality Management (TQM) to streamline processes.
• Monitoring and controlling. During production, operations management monitors progress against
planned schedules and budgets. Real-time tracking systems and metrics ensure the process stays aligned
with targets, and any deviations are corrected promptly.
• Quality assurance. Operations management integrates quality control and assurance into the production
process to ensure the final products meet customer expectations and regulatory standards.
• Delivery and feedback. Once production is complete, operations management oversees product delivery,
evaluates performance, and collects feedback to refine the process for future cycles.
In summary, operations management is the strategic framew ork that go verns every aspect of the production
1. geeksforgeeks. (2024, March 27). What is operations management? Definition, purpose, benefits, and examples.
508 | 11.2: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR MANUFACTURING

[Page 541]
An IKEA home furnishings store
process, ensuring that goods and servic es are produc ed efficiently, me et quality standards, and align with
customer and market demands.
IKEA’s Operations Model
Operations management is an essential part
of the Swedish furniture company IKEA’s
success. Its management systems have
enabled the company to offer more than
10,000 products at competitive prices as it has
grown over nearly eight decades.2 IKEA’s
reputation has rested on its efficient and
effective management of: 3
• Product and process design
• Inventory
• Quality assurance
• Supply chain networks
• Back-end operations
To maintain its low prices, IKEA must ensure efficient operational management across all levels of
the organization—from product design and material sourcing to flat packing, distribution, and
adapting to demand fluctuations. The ability to sustain low manufacturing or service costs through
streamlined operations is a key factor that distinguishes successful businesses from their
competitors.
IKEA has strict requirements around quality, function, and cost when it comes to designing
products. To reduce the price of production and distribution, the company uses a ready-to2. IKEA. (n.d.). Where do your products come from?
3. Faircloth, T. (2021, September 16). Why IKEA’s operations model is so successful. Chekhub.
11.2: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR MANUFACTURING | 509

[Page 542]
assemble design for items in its inventory, and the flat packing method used to ship and store its
products reduces consumer and manufacturing costs.
IKEA begins each product design phase by first establishing a target price. To minimize waste and
reduce overall costs, the company relies on a standardized production process that uses a limited
range of raw materials. Within these constraints, IKEA’s designers develop products that meet the
brand’s core values of affordability, sustainability, quality design, and functionality.
To maintain a competitive edge, IKEA employs a robust forecasting system that anticipates market
trends and initiates production planning years in advance. By strategically allocating production
based on supplier capabilities and resources, IKEA successfully balances output across its network
of third-party manufacturers. Together, these strategies significantly lower per-unit production
costs across its vast inventory.
After production, IKEA’s operational management oversees the transportation of the final products
to a network of automated distribution centers around the globe. The well-designed system
ensures cost-effective distribution to the 484 IKEA stores worldwide.4
Each retail location functions as both a store and a warehouse. Each IKEA store is supported by
both an in-store logistics manager and a store goods manager, responsible for overseeing ordering
and material handling, respectively. Working together, they align inventory management with
customer demand to optimize profitability. By integrating retail spaces with warehouse functions
and adopting a self-service model, IKEA reduces distribution and storage costs, helping it maintain
a strong competitive advantage.
IKEA partners with over 1,500 global suppliers in 54 countries to maintain strong, collaborative
relationships across its supply chain.5 By working closely with suppliers and avoiding internal
competition between suppliers, IKEA co-develops cost-effective, innovative production methods.
This long-term approach reduces costs and enhances value. Through tight control of design,
production, and distribution, IKEA keeps prices low while scaling globally—demonstrating the
power of efficient operational management.
4. IKEA. (2025). How we work.
5. IKEA. (n.d.). Let’s grow together: Become and IKEA supplier.
510 | 11.2: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR MANUFACTURING

[Page 543]
Media Attributions
“IKEA Building” by RDNE Stock Project, used under the Pexels license.
11.2: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR MANUFACTURING | 511

[Page 544]
11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY
CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR
ECONOMY
Supply Chain
Components and Activities of the Supply Chain
A supply c hain refers to the netw ork of individuals, organizations, resourc es, activities, and te chnologies
involved in the production and distribution of a product or servic e. It encompasses every stage from sourcing
raw materials to delivering the final product or service to the consumer.
Key components of a supply chain include the following:
• Suppliers: Provide the raw materials or components needed for production.
• Manufacturers: Transform raw materials into finished goods.
• Distributors and wholesalers: Facilitate the movement of goods from manufacturers to retailers.
• Retailers: Sell the final products to consumers.
• Consumers: The end-users of the product or service.
Activities in the supply chain include the following:
• Procurement: Sourcing raw materials or goods.
• Production: Converting inputs into finished products.
• Logistics: Transporting and storing goods.
• Demand planning: Forecasting customer demand to optimize inventory and production.
Characteristics of an Effective Supply Chain
An effective supply chain aims to deliver products efficiently and cost-effectively while maintaining high levels
of quality and customer satisfaction. Supply chain management (SCM) is the monitoring and optimization
of the production and distribution of a c ompany’s products and services. It seeks to improve and make more
efficient all processes involved in turning raw materials and components into final products and getting them to
512 | 11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY

[Page 545]
the ultimate customer. Effective SCM can help streamline a company’s activities to eliminate waste, maximize
customer value, and gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace.1
The Distinction between Supply Chain and Value Chain
Although supp ly chain and v alue chain are closely relate d c oncepts, they f ocus on diff erent aspe cts of a
product’s lifecycle. The key difference lies in their focus:
• The supply chain emphasizes the logistics and operational flow of goods and services from raw materials
to the final consumer and the ways in which the process will convert raw materials into goods and
services as efficiently as possible. (Refer to Figure 11.2: The Lifecycle of a Cotton T-Shirt.)
• The value chain focuses on value creation at each step, analyzing how each activity adds value to the
product or service and how the costs of operational activities represent a portion of the final sale price of
the good or service. (Refer to Figure 11.2: The Lifecycle of a Cotton T-Shirt.)
Supply Chain Perspectives
The supply chain can be understood in two main ways:
Functional Stages Perspective
This perspective focuses on the processes involved in moving a product from concept to customer and includes
the following stages:
• Planning: Forecasting demand and strategizing operations.
• Sourcing: Procuring raw materials or components.
• Manufacturing (or production): Converting inputs into finished goods.
• Distribution: Delivering products to customers or retailers.
• Returns (reverse logistics): Handling product returns, recycling, or disposal.
These stages often overlap and involve coordination among multiple actors.
1. Fernando, J. (2024, June 27). Supply chain management (SCM): How it works & why it’s important. Investopedia.
11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 513

[Page 546]
Actor-Based Stages Perspective
This perspective focuses on the participants in the supply chain and their ro les and emphasizes responsibility
and interaction among the different entities. It includes stages involving the following participants:
• Supplier: Provides raw materials or components.
• Manufacturer: Produces finished goods.
• Distributor: Moves goods from manufacturers to retailers.
• Retailer: Sells products to end consumers.
• Consumer: The final user of the product.
Both framew orks are c omplementary and c an be use d together to gain a c omprehensive understanding of
supply chains. The supp ly chain functions as a c ontinuous loop , with data and insights from one stage
influencing de cisions in others. This integration ensures efficienc y, c ost-effectiveness, and customer
satisfaction. In essence, the supply chain ensures delivery, while the value chain ensures desirability and worth.
Some global companies that are kno wn for their supply chain excellence include Amazon, App le, Proctor
& Gamb le and Unilev er. You will learn more about supp ly chain and v alue chain when y ou c omplete an
operations management course. This chapter is meant to be an introduction to these concepts.

514 | 11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY

[Page 547]
Figure 11.2: The lifecycle of a cotton T-shirt. [See image description.]
Circular Economy in Manufacturing
The circular economy represents a paradigm shift from the traditional linear model of “take-make-dispose”
to a regenerative approach that emphasizes the restoration and regeneration of products, materials and energy.
It challenges c onventional metrics of v alue c reation and enc ourages manufacturers to design products and
business models with durability, repairability and recyclability in mind. Through recycling, part harvesting and
remanufacturing, repair, refurbishment, and recommerce, circular economy principles can reduce dependency
on scarce resources and component suppliers, building adaptable and resilient supply chains.2
For manuf acturers, this means ensuring p arts and materials within their c ontrol nev er unintentionally
2. World Economic Forum. (2024, February 27). For manufacturers, the circular economy strengthens supply chains. Here’s how.
11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 515

[Page 548]
exit their sp here of influence. By retaining c ontrol over the lif ecycle of products, materials and c omponents,
manufacturers c an prev ent resourc e loss, ensure efficient reuse, enab le c apitalization of circular practic es
and re duce their en vironmental imp act.3
Companies like IKEA f ocus on product design and production
processes that c an be easily disassemb led or re cycled at the end of their lif e c ycle. IKEA’s operations f ocus
on sourcing sustainable materials and c reating products that c ontribute to a circular supp ly chain. Patagonia
has imp lemented circular supp ly chain practic es b y offering rep air servic es f or products and enc ouraging
customers to return old items for recycling or resale, contributing to a circular flow of materials.4
Over the y ears fashion consumption habits ha ve been generating alarming amounts of w aste. The glob al
clothing and te xtile industry is responsib le f or nearly 100 million metric tons (110,231,131 short tons or
220,462,262,185 pounds) of waste every year — a figure that could jump by at least 50% by 2030.5
Despite the lessons from the digital rev olution, many companies continue to f ocus primarily on refining
their e xisting products and servic es f or their current customer b ase. But this appro ach o verlooks the
transformative potential of the circular e conomy, which, like the internet in the late 1990s, stands poise d to
redefine how businesses create, capture and deliver value. As we approach 2030, companies that embrace this
shift will lead in inno vation and market share, much as early adopters of digital te chnologies outpaced their
peers. The rest of this decade will be crucial for businesses to adapt to this new paradigm, where sustainability
is no longer a choice but an essential component of success.6
Creating a Circular Economy for Fashion
Watch the “Creating a Circular Economy for Fashion” YouTube video below to learn about the
innovations in the fashion industry that may just help save our world.

3. World Economic Forum. (2024, February 27). For manufacturers, the circular economy strengthens supply chains. Here’s how.
4. Patagonia. (n.d.). Supply chain environmental responsibility program.
5. World Economic Forum. (2022, May 26). Circular value chains in fashion: Strengthening trust in second-hand markets.
6. World Economic Forum. (2024, February 1). Why businesses must embrace the circular economy to build sustainable success.
516 | 11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY

[Page 549]
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=371#oembed-1
Transcript for “Creating a Circular Economy for Fashion” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available on YouTube.
Source: Financial Times. (2020, January 28). Creating a circular economy for fashion. [Video].
YouTube.
Media Attributions
“Figure 11.2: The lif ecycle of a c otton T-shirt ” is adapte d from Chapter 10: Operations M anagement in
Fundamentals of Business: Canadian E dition, © P amplin Co llege of Business and V irginia Tech Libraries,
licensed under CC BY-NC-SA.
Image descriptions
Figure 11.2
The image illustrates the lif e cycle of a c otton t-shirt, depicte d in a circular flo wchart format, with an inner
circle for the micro stages and an outer circle for the macro stages. At the center, a green t-shirt labelled “LIFE
CYCLE of a cotton t-shirt” is prominent. Surrounding it are various micro stages of the lifecycle in a clockwise
direction:
Micro Cycle:
• Harvesting Cotton/Polyester
• Spinning and Weaving
• Usage of Machine for making the different parts
• Use of Dye
• Washing
11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY | 517

[Page 550]
• Labelling
• Transportation
• Packaging
• Retail Stores
• Marketing Campaigns
• Reaches Consumers
• Recycling OR After Usage – Trashed – leads to landfills
Macro cycle:
• RAW MATERIALS EXTRACTION $2.75 / Shirt
• MANUFACTURING $3.45 / Shirt
• DISTRIBUTION $.50 / Shirt
• Retail (Markup) Final Sale Price = $50.00
[back to figure]
518 | 11.3: THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN SUPPLY CHAIN, VALUE CHAIN AND THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY

[Page 551]
11.4: THE ROLE OF THE OPERATIONS
MANAGER
In the context of supply chain, operations managers manage the process that transforms inputs into outputs.
They ensure that the entire supp ly chain—from sourcing ra w materials to deliv ering finished products—is
efficient, cost-effective, and aligned with business goals.
Their responsibilities can be grouped as follows:
• Production planning: During production planning, managers determine how goods will be produced,
where production will take place, and how manufacturing facilities will be laid out.
• Production control: Once the production process is underway, managers must continually schedule and
monitor the activities that make up that process. They must solicit and respond to feedback and make
adjustments where needed. At this stage, they also oversee the purchasing of raw materials and the
handling of inventories.
• Quality control: The operations manager is directly involved in efforts to ensure that goods are produced
according to specifications and that quality standards are maintained.
In the sections that follow, we will take a closer look at each of these responsibilities.
Inside the Role of an Operations Manager
Watch the “Inside the Role of an Operations Manager: Key Roles and Responsibilities” YouTube
video below to learn about the responsibilities of operations managers.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=374#oembed-1
11.4: THE ROLE OF THE OPERATIONS MANAGER | 519

[Page 552]
Transcript for “Inside the Role of an Operations Manager: Key Roles and Responsibilities” video
[PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Laurence Gartside. (2025, March 28). Inside the role of an operations manager: Key roles
and responsibilities. [Video]. YouTube.

520 | 11.4: THE ROLE OF THE OPERATIONS MANAGER

[Page 553]
11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR
The decisions made in the planning stage have long-range implications and are crucial to a firm’s success. Before
making decisions about the operations proc ess, managers must consider the goals set by marketing managers.
Does the company intend to be a lo w-cost producer and to c ompete on the b asis of price? Or does it p lan to
focus on quality and go after the high end of the market? M any decisions involve trade-offs. For example, low
cost doesn’t normally go hand in hand with high quality . All functions of the c ompany must be aligned with
its overall strategy to ensure success.
Effective production planning requires a thorough analysis of market demand, c apacity capabilities, and
available resources. It involves aligning production schedules with sales forecasts and considering factors such
as lead times, production c apacities, and resourc e a vailability. Additionally , it in volves c oordinating with
other departments, such as procurement, logistics, and maintenanc e, to ensure a smooth and uninterrupte d
production process.1
Let’s review the specific types of decisions that have to be made in the production planning process.
Decisions about Production Methods
The first step in production planning is deciding which type of production process is best for making the goods
that your company intends to manufacture. In reaching this decision, managers should answer such questions
as:
• Are we making a one-of-a-kind good based solely on customer specifications, or are we producing highvolume standardized goods to be sold later?
• Do we offer customers the option of “customizing” an otherwise standardized good to meet their
specific needs?
One way to appreciate the nature of this de cision is by comparing three basic types of proc esses or methods:
make-to-order, mass production, and mass customization. The task of the operations manager is to w ork
1. IE Engineer. (2024, February 12). What is production planning? Why is it important?
11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 521

[Page 554]
with other managers, p articularly marketers, to sele ct the process that best serv es the needs of the c ompany’s
customers.
Make-to-Order (MTO)
At one time, most c onsumer goods, such as furniture and clothing, w ere made b y individuals practicing
various crafts. By their v ery nature, products w ere customized to me et the ne eds of the buy ers who ordere d
them. This process, which is called a make-to-order strategy, is still commonly used by such businesses as print
or sign shops that produce low-volume, high-variety goods according to customer specifications. This level of
customization often results in a longer production and deliv ery cycle than other approaches. It is suitab le for
niche markets or high-value goods (e.g., luxury yachts or custom furniture).
The advantages of make-to-order production include a lo wer likelihood of unso ld inventory, adherence to
specific customer re quirements, and less chanc es of unso ld products, sinc e manufacturing only begins after
receiving firm orders.
The disadvantages of make-to-order production include higher c osts due to smaller production runs and
customized processes, which c an lead to idle production c apacity if orders are lo w, resulting in longer w ait
times for customers.
Mass Production
By the early tw entieth century, a new c oncept of producing goods had be en introduced: mass production
(or make-to-stock strategy), the practice of producing high volumes of identical goods at a cost low enough to
make them attractive for large numbers of customers. Goods are made in anticipation of future demand (based
on forecasts) and kept in in ventory for later sale. This appro ach is p articularly appropriate f or standardized
goods ranging from proc essed foods to electronic appliances. It generally results in shorter c ycle times than a
make-to-order process. This type of production also takes advantage of economies of scale, which refers to the
reduced costs per unit that are realize d from an inc reased total number of units produc ed. It is best f or highdemand products (e.g., Coca-Cola or generic clothing).
The advantages of mass production include lower per-unit costs due to economies of scale, high production
rates that meet large market demand quickly, and uniform quality of products due to standardized processes.
The disadvantages of mass production include limite d ability to adapt to changing customer pref erences,
requiring substantial capital for machinery and setup. Moreover, overproduction may lead to surplus stock and
storage costs.
522 | 11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 555]
Personalized M&Ms are an example of mass
customization.
Mass Customization
There is at least one big disadv antage to mass
production: customers, as one o ld advertising slogan put
it, c an’t “ha ve it their w ay.” They ha ve to ac cept
standardized products as they c ome off assemb ly lines.
Increasingly, however, customers are looking for products
that are designe d to ac commodate individual tastes or
needs but can still be bought at reasonable prices. To meet
the demands of these c onsumers, many c ompanies ha ve
turned to an approach called mass customization, which
combines the adv antages of customize d products with
those of mass production.
This appro ach re quires that a c ompany interact with
the customer to find out exactly what the customer wants
and then manuf acture the goods, using efficient
production methods to ho ld down costs. One efficient method is to mass-produc e a product up to a c ertain
cut-off point and then to customize it to satisfy diff erent customers. It is ideal f or industries off ering
personalized products (e.g., Dell’s customizable computers).
The adv antages of mass customization include off ering personalize d products that enhanc e customer
loyalty, helping businesses stand out in markets filled with standardized goods, and leveraging automation and
modular design for greater adaptability.
The disadvantages of mass customization include generally higher unit c osts compared to traditional mass
production, the ne ed f or adv anced te chnology and logistics to handle customization efficiently , and the
potential for slower production speeds due to the customization process.
One of the best-kno wn mass customizers is Nike, which has achiev ed suc cess b y allo wing customers to
configure their own athletic shoes, apparel, and equipment through the “Nike By You” program. The Web has
a lot to do with the gro wth of mass customization. Levi’s, f or instance, lets customers find a p air of perfectly
fitting jeans, then helps them personalize the jeans through the “Levi’s Tailor Shop“. Oakley offers customized
sunglasses, goggles, w atches, and b ackpacks. Mars, Inc. c an make M&Ms in an y colour the customer w ants
(say, school colours) and add text and even pictures to the candy.
Naturally, mass customization doesn’t work for all types of goods. Most people don’t care about customized
detergents or p aper products. And while man y of us like the idea of customize d clothes, f ootwear, or
sunglasses, we often aren’t willing to pay the higher prices they command.
Refer to Table 11.1 for a comparison of the features of mass production, mass customization, and make-toorder production methods.
11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 523

[Page 556]
Table 11.1: A comparison of production methods
Feature Mass
Production
Mass
Customization Make-to-Order
Customer
Focus Low High Very High
Cost
Efficiency Very High Moderate Low
Flexibility Low Moderate to High Very High
Lead
Times Short Moderate Long
Production
Risk
Inventory
Surplus
Moderate (requires
demand prediction)
Low (no
overproduction)
Facilities Decisions
After selecting the best production proc ess, operations managers must then de cide where the goods will be
manufactured, how large the manufacturing facilities will be, and how those facilities will be laid out.
Site Selection
Site selection involves measuring the ne eds of a new proje ct against the merits of potential loc ations. In site
selection, managers must consider several factors:
• To minimize shipping costs, managers often want to locate plants close to suppliers, customers, or both.
• They generally want to locate in areas with ample numbers of skilled workers.
• They naturally prefer locations where they and their families will enjoy living.
• They want locations where costs for resources and other expenses—land, labour, construction, utilities,
and taxes—are low.
• They look for locations with a favourable business climate—one in which, for example, local
governments might offer financial incentives (such as tax breaks) to entice them to do business in their
locales. For example, an enterprise zone is an area in which incentives are used to attract investments
from private companies.
Managers rarely find locations that meet all these c riteria. As a rule, they identify the more important c riteria
and aim to satisfy them. F or example, Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada (TMMC) estab lished one of its
assembly plants in Cambridge, Ontario, after an extensive site selection process. Factors that influenced the site
selection decision included skilled workforce, proximity to automotive supply chains, access to major markets
524 | 11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 557]
Facility layout at a factory ensures a smooth flow of
production
(close to the U.S. border), transportation infrastructure (major highways and railways), government incentives
(Canadian and Ontario go vernments pro vided financial inc entives and tax breaks), c ost of operations
(affordable), and cultural fit (high-quality manufacturing and workforce reliability aligned with Toyota’s brand
image and production standards).
Facility Layout
The facility layout is the p hysical arrangement of
resources. The f acility layout should be p lanned to
handle materials orderly and efficiently and ensure a
smooth flo w of production. F or instanc e, the
distance that a work-in-progress must travel within a
facility should be c onsidered. Diff erent
manufacturing proc esses re quire diff erent f acility
layouts, but these are the four common types:
◦ Process layout
◦ Product layout
◦ Fixed-position layout
◦ Cellular layout
A company may also choose to c ombine any of these la youts into a h ybrid layout. To learn more about each
type, refer to the end-of-chapter exercises and complete the Manufacturing Facility Layout exercise.
Capacity Planning
Now that the c ompany has determine d a loc ation, the ne xt decision it must make is about the quantity of
products that it will produc e. Managers begin by forecasting demand for the company’s product, which isn’t
easy. To estimate the number of units that are likely to sell o ver a giv en period, they ha ve to understand
the industry that they are in and estimate their likely share of the market b y reviewing industry data and
conducting other forms of research.
Once demand for the product has be en forecasted, managers c an calculate the capacity requirements of
the production facility—the maximum number of goods that it c an produce over a given time under normal
working conditions. Having calculated the capacity requirements, managers are ready to determine how much
investment in the plant and equipment they will have to make, as well as the number of labour hours required
for the plant to produce at capacity and meet demand.
Like f orecasting, c apacity p lanning is difficult. Unf ortunately, f ailing to b alance c apacity and proje cted
11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 525

[Page 558]
demand can be seriously detrimental to the firm’s bottom line. If c apacity is set too lo w (and so the c ompany
produces less than it should), it w on’t be able to meet demand and will lose sales and customers. If c apacity is
set too high (and results in more units than ne eded), the c ompany will w aste resources and inflate operating
costs. Theref ore, c ontinuous review , the proc ess of routinely reviewing the organization’s proc esses to
determine where impro vements c an be made to inc rease organizational efficienc y, is v ery important in the
capacity planning process to avoid producing too much or too little.
Media Attributions
“Ai Generate d, Woman, F actory ro yalty-free stock illustration” by hbf arhan1000, use d under the Pixabay
license.
“Personalized M&Ms ” b y Nasha T araporewalla is pub lished under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-ShareAlike license.
526 | 11.5 PRODUCTION PLANNING FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 559]
11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Production control is a crucial function in operations management that ensures resourc es are used efficiently
and effectively to meet production goals. It integrates purchasing, in ventory control, and work scheduling to
streamline production processes.
Purchasing
The proc ess of ac quiring the materials and servic es to be use d in production is c alled purchasing (or
procurement). For many products, the c osts of material makes up about 50 perc ent of total manuf acturing
costs. Not surprisingly, materials acquisition gets a good deal of the operations manager’s time and attention.
Supplier Selection
Supplier selection is a critical aspect of purchasing. It involves choosing the best vendors to meet the company’s
material or service requirements based on specific criteria. As a rule, there’s no shortage of v endors willing to
supply materials, but the trick is finding the best suppliers. Operations managers must consider the following:
• Can the vendor supply the needed quantity of materials at a reasonable price?
• Is the quality good?
• Is the vendor reliable (will materials be delivered on time)?
• Does the vendor have a favourable reputation?
• Is the company easy to work with?
Use key performance indicators (KPIs) to assess potential vendors:
• Cost: Are the prices competitive?
• Quality: Do they meet the required standards consistently?
• Reliability: Are deliveries made on time?
• Capacity: Can they handle the required volume?
• Sustainability: Do they align with the company’s ethical and environmental goals?
11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 527

[Page 560]
Procurement: Supplies being shipped
Strategic supplier selection is important for the following reasons:
• Cost efficiency: Reducing production costs through competitive pricing.
• Quality assurance: Ensuring final products meet customer expectations.
• Risk mitigation: Reducing supply chain disruptions by working with reliable suppliers.
• Innovation: Collaborating with suppliers who offer advanced technologies or innovative solutions.
In summary, the integration of efficient purchasing and c areful supplier selection can significantly enhance a
company’s operational performance and competitive advantage.
Procurement
Technology has change d the w ay businesses buy
things. Through modern procurement practic es,
companies use the Internet to interact with
suppliers. The process is similar to the one you’d use
to find a c onsumer good—sa y, a high-definition
TV—over the Internet. To choose a T V, you might
browse the w ebsites of manuf acturers like Son y,
then shop f or pric es and buy on Amazon, the
world’s largest online retailer.
If you were a purchasing manager using the Internet to buy p arts and supp lies, you’d follow basically the
same process. You’d identify potential suppliers by going directly to private websites maintained by individual
suppliers or to pub lic sites that aggregate inf ormation on numerous supp liers. You could do y our shopping
through online c atalogues, or y ou might p articipate in an online marketp lace b y indic ating the type and
quantity of materials y ou need and letting supp liers bid. Finally, just as y ou paid for your T V electronically,
you could use a s ystem called electronic data interchange (EDI) to proc ess your transactions and transmit all
your purchasing documents.
The Internet pro vides an additional benefit to purchasing managers b y helping them c ommunicate with
suppliers and potential supp liers. They c an use the Internet to giv e supp liers spe cifications f or p arts and
supplies, encourage them to bid on future materials ne eds, alert them to changes in re quirements, and giv e
them instructions on doing business with their emp loyers. Using the Internet f or business purchasing cuts
the c osts of purchase d products and sa ves administrativ e c osts relate d to transactions. It’s also f aster f or
procurement and fosters better communications.
Harley-Davidson maintains a Supp lier Div ersity po licy f or making procurement-relate d de cisions. This
decision area is c oncerned with optimizing the supp ly chain for the motorcycle manufacturer’s growth. The
company’s policy ensures the optimal productivity and capacity of its supply chain based on the availability of a
528 | 11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 561]
wide variety of suppliers. Success in this area of operations management depends on how policies and strategies
address the bargaining power of suppliers, as described in the Five Forces Analysis of Harley-Da vidson. Also,
decisions about supply chain management take into ac count supply-related industry and market c onditions,
such as the trends shown in the PESTLE/PESTEL analysis of Harley-Davidson.1
Outsourcing in the Manufacturing Sector
Outsourcing in business refers to the practice of contracting out certain business functions, tasks, or processes
to e xternal v endors or servic e pro viders, rather than handling them in-house. This strategy is c ommonly
employed by companies to reduce costs, gain access to specialized expertise, or increase efficiency by leveraging
external resourc es. These tasks c an include activities such as customer servic e, manufacturing, IT support,
human resources, and more. A c ompany may decide to outsource manufacturing to a foreign country where
labour costs are lower, influencing both the location of operations and the logistics required to maintain supply
chains. For example, Nike has be en known for outsourcing the ma jority of its manuf acturing, choosing to
locate production in countries like Vietnam, China, and Indonesia. This allo ws Nike to focus on its product
design and marketing while relying on e xternal partners for labour-intensive tasks. This outsourcing model
significantly impacts both its product/service strategy and supply chain decisions.
Some reasons companies outsource include:
• Companies might outsource to reduce costs
• Gain access to expertise, technology, and innovation they currently do not have
• To better focus on core business activities by outsourcing non-core activities
• Outsourcing provides flexibility in scaling operations up or down quickly
• Companies can reduce risks by sharing risks with, or transferring some risks to, external partners
• For global companies, outsourcing to different time zones can provide a 24-hour work cycle
While outsourcing provides numerous advantages, it also has some disadvantages, including:
• Ensuring quality standards are met
• Maintaining control over outsourced functions
• Risks of data breaches or the mishandling of sensitive information
• Communication issues such as language barriers or cultural differences
• Limited options to switch providers without incurring costs or disruptions
• Vulnerability if the company over-relies on the partner and the partner fails to deliver
1. Meyer, P. (2024, October 1). Harley-Davidson operations management & productivity. Panmore Institute.
11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 529

[Page 562]
• Risks of intellectual property theft or misuse by third-party providers
Outsourcing has become an increasingly popular option among manufacturers. For one thing, few companies
have either the expertise or the inclination to produce everything needed to make a product. Today, more firms
want to specialize in the proc esses that they perf orm best (core function) and outsourc e the rest. Comp anies
also want to take adv antage of outsourcing b y linking up with supp liers located in regions with lo wer labour
costs. Outsourcing can be local, regional, or even international, and companies can outsource everything from
parts f or their products, like automobile manuf acturers do , to c omplete manuf acturing of their products,
like Nike and App le do. Apple outsources the production of c ertain components (like chips or disp lays) to
specialized manufacturers, enhancing both product quality and innovation.
Inventory Control
If a manufacturer runs out of the materials it ne eds for production, then production stops. In the p ast, many
companies guarded against this possibility by keeping large inventories of materials on hand. It seemed like the
thing to do at the time, but it often introduc ed a new problem—wasting money. Companies were paying for
parts and other materials that they w ouldn’t use f or weeks or ev en months, and in the meantime, they w ere
running up substantial storage and insurance costs. If the company redesigned its products, some parts might
become obsolete before ever being used.
Most manufacturers have since learned that to remain c ompetitive, they need to manage in ventories more
efficiently. This task requires that they strike a balance between two threats to productivity: losing production
time because they’ve run out of materials and w asting money be cause they’re c arrying too much in ventory.
The process of striking this balance is called inventory control, and companies now regularly rely on a variety
of inventory-control methods.
Just-in-Time Production
One method is c alled Just-in-Time ( JIT) production: the manufacturer arranges f or materials to arriv e at
production facilities just in time to enter the manuf acturing process. Parts and materials don’t sit unuse d for
long periods, and the c osts of “ho lding” inventory are signific antly cut. JIT , however, requires considerable
communication and cooperation between the manufacturer and the supplier. The manufacturer has to know
what it needs and when. The supp lier has to c ommit to supplying the right materials, of the right quality , at
exactly the right time. Today many grocery stores use JIT s ystems to replenish stock based on sales data from
its point-of-sale system, reducing wastage of perishable items.
530 | 11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 563]
Material Requirements Planning
A software tool called material requirements planning (MRP), relies on sales f orecasts and ordering lead
times f or materials to c alculate the quantity of each c omponent p art ne eded f or production and then
determine when they should be ordered or made. The detailed sales forecast is turned into a master production
schedule (MPS), which MRP then expands into a forecast for the needed parts based on the bill of materials for
each item in the forecast. A bill of materials is simp ly a list of the v arious parts that make up the end product.
The role of MRP is to determine the anticip ated need for each p art based on the sales f orecast and to p lace
orders so that everything arrives just in time for production.
Inventory Management Software
Tools like SAP, Oracle NetSuite, or QuickBoo ks help automate in ventory tracking and analysis. An e xample
in the manuf acturing se ctor is a c ar manuf acturer that maintains a saf ety stock of c ritical c omponents to
avoid production halts due to supply chain disruptions. An example in the manufacturing sector. Point-of-sale
(POS) systems track everything sold during a given time and provide information on how much of each item
should be kept in inventory.
Work Scheduling
To control the timing of all operations, managers set up schedules: they select jobs to be performed during the
production process, assign tasks to work groups, set timetables for the completion of tasks, and make sure that
resources are a vailable when and where they’re ne eded. There are a number of sche duling techniques. We’ll
focus on two of the most common graphical tools—Gantt and PERT charts.
Gantt Charts
A Gantt chart, named after the designer, Henry Gantt, is an eas y-to-use graphical tool that helps operations
managers determine the status of projects. Let’s say that you’re in charge of making the “hiking bear” offered by
the Toronto Teddy Bear Company. Figure 11.3 below shows a Gantt chart for the production of one hundred
of these bears. It shows that several activities must be completed before the bears are dressed: the fur has to be
cut, stuffed, and sewn; and the clothes and accessories must be made. Our Gantt chart tells us that by day six, all
accessories and clothing have been made. The sewing and stuffing, however (which must be finished before the
bears are dressed), isn’t scheduled for completion until the end of day eight. As operations manager, you’ll have
to pay close attention to the progress of the sewing and stuffing operations to ensure that finished products are
ready for shipment by their scheduled date.

11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 531

[Page 564]
Figure 11.3: Gantt chart for producing teddy bears. [See image description.]
PERT Charts
Gantt charts are useful when the production proc ess is f airly simp le and the activities aren’t interrelate d.
For more complex schedules, operations managers ma y use PERT charts. PERT (which stands f or Program
Evaluation and Review T echnique) is designe d to diagram the activities re quired to produc e a good, spe cify
the time required to perform each activity in the process, and organize activities in the most efficient sequence.
It also identifies a critical path: the sequence of activities that will entail the greatest amount of time. Figure
11.4 is a PERT diagram showing the process for producing one “hiker” bear at Toronto Teddy Bear.
Our PERT chart shows how the activities involved in making a single bear are relate d. It indicates that the
production process begins at the cutting station. Ne xt, the fur that’s be en cut f or this p articular bear mo ves
first to the sewing and stuffing stations and then to the dressing station. At the same time that its fur mo ves
532 | 11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 565]
through this sequence of steps, the bear’s clothes are cut and sewn, and its T-shirt is embroidered. Its backpack
and tent accessories are also being made at the same time. Note that fur, clothes, and accessories all meet at the
dressing station, where the bear is dressed and outfitted with its backpack. Finally, the finished bear is packaged
and shipped to the customer’s house.
What was the critical path in this process? The path that took the longest amount of time was the sequence
that include d cutting, stuffing, dressing, p ackaging, and shipping—a se quence of steps taking sixty-fiv e
minutes. If you wanted to produce a bear more quickly, you’d have to save time on this path. Even if you saved
the time on an y of the other p aths, you still w ouldn’t finish the entire job an y sooner: the finishe d clothes
would just ha ve to w ait for the fur to be sewn and stuff ed and mo ved to the dressing station. W e can gain
efficiency only by improving our performance on one or more of the activities along the critical path.
Figure 11.4: PERT chart showing time and activities in making teddy bears. [See image description.]
Media Attributions
“Container, Port, Ship image” by MICHOFF, used under the Pixabay license.
“Figure 11.3: Gantt Chart for Producing Teddy Bears” is reused from Example of a Gantt chart for a teddy
bear.
“Figure 11.4: PERT Chart Showing Time and Activities in Making Teddy Bears” is reused from Example of
a PERT chart for a teddy bear.
Image descriptions
Figure 11.3
A Gantt chart f or the Hiking Bear Proje ct organized with da ys numbered 1 through 13 along the top and a
11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 533

[Page 566]
list of activities down the left side. The activities include “Cut Fur,” “Sew and stuff fur,” “Cut material,” “Sew
clothes,” “Embroider t-shirt,” “Cut accessories,” “Sew accessories,” “Dress bears,” “Package bears,” and “Ship
bears.” Orange shaded squares indicate completed work, while lighter beige squares represent w ork yet to be
completed. The chart shows that “Cut Fur” starts on day 1 and is completed by day 3, and “Sew and stuff fur”
is scheduled for days 4 to 7. Other tasks o verlap on different days, indicating when they are p lanned to start
and finish. “Dress bears”, “Package bears”, and “Ship bears” are marked in lighter beige, indicating “work to be
completed”. The other tasks are marked with orange shaded squares that indicate “completed work”. There’s a
legend at the bottom left, and an additional note at the bottom right states, “Lot size: 100 bears. All activities
are scheduled to start at their earliest start time.”
[back to figure]
Figure 11.4
A PERT chart illustrating the production process of a bear. The process begins with a “START” circle on the
left, branching into three paths. The top path includes sequential steps labelled: “Cut material for clothes” (10
minutes), “Sew clothes ” (10 minutes), and “Embroider T -shirt” (10 minutes). T asks on the c ritical path are
outlined in orange. The other tasks ha ve e black outline. The p ath that runs through the middle is identifie d
as the critical path and consists of: “Cut fur” (10 minutes), “Sew fur and stuff” (30 minutes), “Dress bear” (15
minutes), “Package bear” (5 minutes), and “Ship bear” (5 minutes). The bottom path lists: “Cut accessories” (5
minutes) and “Sew accessories” (10 minutes). All elements are connected by arrows indicating the process flow,
with some steps linked by small circles suggesting possible intersections or decision points. The flow converges
after the sewing of garments, accessories, and the stuffed bear to continue along the “CRITICAL PATH.”
[back to figure]
534 | 11.6: PRODUCTION CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 567]
11.7: QUALITY CONTROL FOR THE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR
Quality is defined as the degre e to which a product or servic e meets or e xceeds customer e xpectations and
adheres to estab lished standards or spe cifications. It is a multif aceted c oncept that c an be view ed through
different lenses, such as product characteristics, customer satisfaction, and continuous improvement.1
What do y ou do if y our brand-new p hone doesn’t w ork when y ou get it home? Like most pe ople, you’d
probably be more or less disgruntle d. As a customer, y ou’re constantly assured that when products make it
to market, they’re of the highest possib le quality, and you tend to a void brands that ha ve failed to live up to
your expectations or to producers’ claims. When you buy a mobile phone, you expect it to be able to connect
to a mobile network and be easy to use for communication purposes. If your expectations are not met, y ou’ll
conclude that you’re the victim of poor quality.
Quality control in manufacturing is the process of ensuring that products meet predefined quality standards
and spe cifications, helping to deliv er c onsistent and reliab le outputs. It in volves s ystematic p lanning,
implementation, and evaluation of processes to maintain product quality.
Key aspects of quality control include:
• Inspection and testing
• Process monitoring (Statistical Process Control (SPC))
• Standardization (ISO 9001)
• Defect prevention (Six Sigma)
Examples of quality control in two precision-based industries include:
• Automotive: Toyota uses the Andon system to stop production immediately when quality issues are
detected, integrating lean manufacturing with quality control.2
• Electronics: Apple’s rigorous quality testing includes material durability and product performance tests
before market release.3
1. OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Jan 21 version) [Large language model].
2. Lean Outside the Box. (2024, February 18). Andon: Meaning, benefits, and examples.
3. Hutchinson, R. (2024, June 11). Inside Apple’s secret iPhone testing labs. Geeky Gadgets.
11.7: QUALITY CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 535

[Page 568]
Total Quality Management (TQM)
Total quality management (TQM) is the continual process of detecting and reducing or eliminating errors
in manufacturing. It streamlines supp ly chain management, impro ves the customer e xperience, and ensures
that employees are up to speed with training.4
A quality management s ystem (QMS) is a f ormalized system that documents proc esses, procedures, and
responsibilities f or achieving quality po licies and obje ctives. The QMS helps manuf acturing c ompanies
coordinate and direct activities to meet customer and regulatory requirements.5
The TQM strategy requires consistent feedback from employees and customers to determine ho w services
and products c an be impro ved ac ross the organization and is designe d to help c ompanies find a p ath to
strengthen their position in the market, inc rease productivity , impro ve customer lo yalty and satisf action,
boost employee morale, and improve processes. Whereas many quality management strategies focus on specific
departments, TQM includes ev ery department in c ontinually improving a c ompany’s products and servic es.
According to the TQM philosophy, the more you improve processes in every department, the easier it will be
to deliver higher-quality products and services to customers. With TQM, everyone in the company should be
focused on quality improvement with the shared goal of boosting customer loyalty and satisfaction. 6
Total quality management (T QM), or quality assuranc e, includes all the steps that a c ompany takes to
ensure that its goods or services are of sufficiently high quality to meet customers’ needs. Generally speaking, a
company adheres to TQM principles by focusing on three tasks: Customer satisfaction, employee involvement,
and continuous improvement. Let’s take a closer look at these three principles.
Customer Satisfaction
Companies that are c ommitted to T QM understand that the purpose of a business is to generate a profit
through customer satisfaction. Thus, they let their customers define quality b y identifying desirable product
features and then off ering those f eatures to their clientele. They enc ourage customers to tell them ho w to
offer services that work the right way. Armed with this knowledge, they take steps to make sure that providing
quality is a factor in every facet of their operations—from design to product planning and control, to sales and
service. To get feedback on how well they’re doing, many companies routinely use surveys and other methods
to monitor customer satisfaction. By tracking the results of f eedback over time, they c an see where they ne ed
to improve.
4. The Investopedia Team. (2024, June 19). What is total quality management (TQM), and why is it important? Investopedia.
5. De Lucca Caetano, B. (2024, May 1). Quality management system (QMS) for manufacturing. SimplerQMS.
6. CIO. (2022, January 20). What is TQM? A company-wide strategy for customer satisfaction.
536 | 11.7: QUALITY CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 569]
Quality products meet customers’ needs.
Employee Involvement
Successful TQM requires that everyone in the organization, not simp ly upper-level management, commits to
satisfying the customer. A mobile p hone isn’t so lely the responsibility of the manuf acturer’s quality c ontrol
department; it’s the responsibility of ev ery employee involved in its design, production, and ev en shipping.
To get ev eryone involved in the driv e for quality assuranc e, managers must c ommunicate the importanc e of
quality to subordinates and motiv ate them to f ocus on customer satisf action. Employees have to be properly
trained not only to do their jobs but also to dete ct and c orrect quality prob lems. In man y c ompanies,
employees who perf orm similar jobs w ork as teams, sometimes c alled quality circles, to identify quality ,
efficiency, and other w ork-related prob lems, to propose so lutions, and to w ork with management in
implementing their recommendations.
Continuous Improvement
An integral p art of T QM is c ontinuous improvement: the c ommitment to making c onstant improvements
in the design, production, and deliv ery of goods and servic es. Improvements can almost alw ays be made to
increase efficiency, reduce costs, and improve customer service and satisfaction. Everyone in the organization is
constantly on the lookout for ways to do things better.
Statistical Process Control
Statistical pr ocess c ontrol (SPC) is defined as
the use of statistic al techniques to c ontrol a proc ess
or production method. SPC too ls and proc edures
can help y ou monitor proc ess beha viour, disc over
issues in internal s ystems, and find so lutions f or
production issues. Statistical process control is often
used interchangeably with statistical quality control
(SQC).7
Companies can use a v ariety of too ls to identify
areas f or impro vement. A c ommon appro ach in
manufacturing is c alled statistic al proc ess c ontrol.
This te chnique monitors production quality b y
7. ASQ. (n.d.). What is statistical process control?
11.7: QUALITY CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR | 537

[Page 570]
testing a samp le of output to se e whether goods in proc ess are being made ac cording to pre determined
specifications. An example of a statistic al process control method is Six Sigma. A Six Sigma proc ess is one in
which 99.99966% of all opportunities to perf orm an operation are fre e of defects. This percentage equates to
only 3.4 defects per million opportunities.
Assume for a moment that you work for Kellogg’s, the maker of Raisin Bran c ereal. You know that it’s the
company’s goal to p ack two scoops of raisins in ev ery box of c ereal. How can you test to determine whether
this goal is being met? You could use a statistical process control method called a sampling distribution. On a
periodic basis, you would take a box of cereal off the production line and measure the amount of raisins in the
box. Then you’d record that amount on a c ontrol chart designed to compare actual quantities of raisins with
the desired quantity (two scoops). If your chart shows that several samples in a ro w are low on raisins, y ou’d
take corrective action.
SPC is widely used in manufacturing industries to monitor and control production processes. By using tools
like control charts, histograms, and P areto charts, manuf acturers can identify v ariations in proc esses, detect
defects early, and improve product quality. This method is particularly effective in industries like automotive,
electronics, food production, and pharmaceuticals.
Media Attributions
“Businesswoman, Presentation, Men’s suit image” by geralt, used under the Pixabay license.
538 | 11.7: QUALITY CONTROL FOR THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR

[Page 571]
11.8: PRODUCTION PROCESS
TECHNOLOGIES
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) and Computer-Aide d Manufacturing (CAM) are te chnologies that w ork
together and are widely use d ac ross v arious industries to impro ve design, manuf acturing, and production
processes. These te chnologies represent the ev olution of manuf acturing from manual proc esses to fully
automated and integrated systems, resulting in higher productivity and better-quality products.
Computer-Aided Design
Computer-Aided Design ( CAD) refers to the use of c omputer softw are to c reate, modify , analyze, or
optimize a design. CAD is widely use d in engine ering, architecture, and product design to dev elop precise
technical drawings and 3D models. It allows users to detail 2D and 3D models of products, parts, or structures
and test and simulate these designs under v arious c onditions bef ore manuf acturing. Ex amples of CAD
software include AutoCAD, SolidWorks, and CATIA, which are used when engineers design a car part (e.g., a
wheel rim) using 3D modelling software.
In an automotive company, CAD is when an engine er designs a p art for a car (e.g., a whe el rim) using 3D
modelling software.
Computer-Aided Manufacturing
Computer-Aided Manufacturing (CAM) refers to the use of c omputer software and hardware to control
and automate manuf acturing processes. CAM takes CAD designs and c onverts them into instructions f or
machines, such as Computer Numeric al Contro l (CNC) e quipment. Ex amples of CAM softw are include
Mastercam, Fusion 360, and Siemens NX.
Because CAD and CAM programs can “talk” with each other, companies can build components that satisfy
the exact requirements set by the computer-generated model. CAD/CAM systems permit companies to design
and manufacture goods faster, more efficiently, and at a lo wer cost, and they’re also eff ective in helping firms
monitor and improve quality. CAD/CAM technology is used in many industries, including the auto industry,
electronics, and clothing. If y ou have ever seen how a 3-D printer w orks, you have a pretty good idea of ho w
CAM works, too.
In an automotiv e c ompany, CAM sends the design to a CNC machine, which uses the instructions to
precisely cut the wheel rim from a metal block.
11.8: PRODUCTION PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES | 539

[Page 572]
Computer-Integrated Manufacturing
Computer-Integrated M anufacturing ( CIM) represents a c omprehensive appro ach to manuf acturing
where CAD, CAM, and other business and manuf acturing processes are integrated using computer systems.
It enables seamless communication between design, production, and management. Examples of CIM systems
include ERPs such as SAP and Oracle NetSuite, as well as robotics and automated assembly lines.
CIM systems expand the c apabilities of CAD /CAM. In addition to design and production app lications,
they handle such functions as order entry, inventory control, warehousing, and shipping. In the manufacturing
plant, the CIM s ystem controls the functions of industrial robots—c omputer-controlled machines use d to
perform repetitive tasks that are also hard or dangerous for human workers to perform.
In an automotiv e c ompany, CIM integrates the entire manuf acturing proc ess with in ventory, quality
control, and supp ly chain s ystems to ensure the right materials are a vailable, def ects are minimize d, and
production schedules are met.
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
Material Requirements Planning (MRP) and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) are interconnected
systems used in modern business operations, p articularly in manuf acturing and supp ly chain management.
While they serv e different purposes, they are closely relate d and often integrate d for greater efficiency. MRP
is a s ystem focused on managing the materials and c omponents required for production. It ensures that the
right materials are a vailable at the right time to me et production sche dules. Key functions include in ventory
control, production p lanning, and sche duling materials procurement. ERP is a bro ader, integrate d s ystem
that manages and automates a c ompany’s c ore business proc esses ac ross multip le dep artments, including
finance, HR, manuf acturing, supply chain, sales, and customer relationship management (CRM). It often
incorporates MRP as a module.
To keep up with ev er-changing customer demand and rising c osts, manufacturers are alw ays looking for
ways to impro ve operations, boost efficienc y and sta y c ompetitive. Ho wever, traditional methods f or
maintaining that competitive edge may no longer be enough in today’s world of complex global supply chains
and economic uncertainty. According to Deloitte’s “2022 M anufacturing Supply Chain Study,” 76% of the
over 200 manuf acturing executives surveyed listed investing in digital supp ly chain too ls as a top strategy to
overcome challenges that can include shipping delays and material shortages.1
The use of ERP in manuf acturing companies provides several benefits: integration of c entralization, data1. Hardin, K., Laaper, S., Parrott, A.& Gold, S. (2022). Meeting the challenge of supply chain disruption. Deloitte Insights.
540 | 11.8: PRODUCTION PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES

[Page 573]
driven de cision-making, and c onnectivity and c ommunication internally (all dep artments, loc ations) and
externally (customers, suppliers). ERP systems are available for manufacturing and service businesses.
An Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system is a comprehensive business platform that helps businesses
manage their daily operations. M anufacturing ERP s ystems are spe cifically designed for the manuf acturing
industry and include spe cialized f eatures to address the industry’s unique challenges, such as production
planning, inventory management, quality control and order tracking. These systems centralize and streamline
manufacturing operations by collecting, analyzing and reporting on business-wide data. Stakeho lders can use
this data — often through the use of automation and advanced analytics tools — to improve efficiency, increase
productivity and reduce costs. Manufacturers can also leverage ERP technology to increase visibility into the
entire manufacturing process to impart resilience and potentially improve profitability on the whole.2
Key features of manufacturing ERP systems include:3
• Inventory management
• Sales order management
• Quality management
• CAD/CAM management
• Bill of Materials (BOM) management
• Planning and scheduling
• Mobile capabilities
Benefits of manufacturing ERP systems include:4
• Optimized stock levels
• Reduced carrying charges
• Reduced stock shortage or stock surplus situations
• Improved delivery times
• Reduced order errors
2. Schwarz, L. (2025, June 1). What Is manufacturing ERP software? A complete guide. Netsuite.
3. Schwarz, L. (2025, June 1). What Is manufacturing ERP software? A complete guide. Netsuite.
4. Schwarz, L. (2025, June 1). What Is manufacturing ERP software? A complete guide. Netsuite.
11.8: PRODUCTION PROCESS TECHNOLOGIES | 541

[Page 574]
Haircuts are customized to each customer’s
preference
11.9: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR
SERVICE PROVIDERS
Operations management in servic e companies and manuf acturing companies differs significantly due to the
nature of their outputs, processes, and customer interaction.
Though the primary function of both
manufacturers and servic e pro viders is to satisfy
customer ne eds, there are sev eral important
differences betw een the tw o types of operations.
Let’s focus on three of them:
• Intangibility. Manufacturers produce tangible
products—things that can be touched or
handled, such as automobiles and appliances.
Service companies provide intangible
products, such as banking, entertainment, or
education.
• Customization. Most manufactured goods are
standardized. Services, by contrast, are often customized to satisfy the specific needs of a customer. For
example, when you go to the hairdresser, you ask for a haircut that looks good on you because of the
shape of your face and the texture of your hair.
• Customer contact. You could spend your entire working life assembling cars in Detroit and never meet a
customer who bought a car that you helped to make. But if you were a restaurant server, you’d interact
with customers every day. In fact, their satisfaction with your product is determined in part by the
service that you provide. Unlike manufactured goods, many services are bought and consumed at the
same time.
As the Canadian e conomy has change d from a goods produc er to a servic e provider over the last sixty y ears,
the dominanc e of the manuf acturing se ctor has de clined substantially . Today, only about 10 perc ent of
Canadian w orkers are emp loyed in manuf acturing, in c ontrast to 30 perc ent in 1950. Research highlights
manufacturing’s steady decline relative to the growing service sector, with automation and international trade
542 | 11.9: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 575]
reshaping the industry.1
Most of us no w hold jobs in the servic e sector, which accounts for approximately 80
percent of Canadian jobs.2
In service firms, managers typically organize their responsibilities into thre e key areas: planning operations,
managing operations, and c ontrolling quality . These areas help ensure the firm operates eff ectively and
efficiently while meeting customer expectations.
Media Attributions
“Men Having Their Haircut” by Thgusstavo Santana, used under the Pexels license.
1. Bernard, A. (n.d.). Trends in manufacturing employment. Statistics Canada.
2. Statistics Canada. (2024). Labour force survey, February 2024.
11.9: OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 543

[Page 576]
11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR
SERVICE PROVIDERS
Service organizations must c arefully design their servic es to me et customer ne eds while ensuring efficienc y.
This involves selecting the right service model (e.g., self-service, direct service, or hybrid) and determining the
layout of servic e processes to streamline operations and re duce wait times. F or example, in a restaurant, the
kitchen layout must optimize food preparation time while ensuring smooth customer service.
When starting or e xpanding operations, businesses in the servic e sector must make a number of de cisions
quite similar to those made by manufacturers:
• What services (and perhaps what goods) should they offer?
• Where will they locate their business, and what will their facilities look like?
• How will they forecast demand for their services?
Let’s see how service firms answer questions such as these.
Operations Processes
When planning operations, service organizations focus on tailoring their operations proc esses to deliver highquality and consistent service experiences.
Service organizations suc ceed by providing services that satisfy customers ’ needs. Companies that pro vide
transportation, such as airlines, ha ve to get customers to their destinations as quickly and saf ely as possib le.
Companies that deliver packages, such as FedEx, must pick up, sort, and deliver packages in a timely manner.
Companies that pro vide both servic es and goods, such as Domino’s Pizza, ha ve a dual challenge: they must
produce a quality good and deliver it satisfactorily.
Service pro viders that produc e goods c an adopt either a make-to-order or a make-to-stock appro ach to
producing them. Sub way enc ourages p atrons to customize their sandwiches b y using a make-to-order
approach, building sandwiches one at a time. Although many fast food restaurants have adopted the make-toorder model, a few continue to make-to-stock. For example, Dunkin’ Donuts does not customize doughnuts,
and so they do not have to wait for customer orders before making them.
Like manufacturers, service providers must continuously look for ways to improve operational efficiency.
544 | 11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 577]
McDonald’s customers are using the drive-thru more
often
McDonald’s Removing Self-Serve Soda Stations
Several years ago, many fast-food restaurants moved the drink stations from behind the counter so
that customers could take over the time-consuming task of filling cups with ice and beverages. This
allowed the restaurants to cut back on the number of employees needed per day at every location.
In 2024, McDonald’s decided to eliminate
self-serve drink stations from its U.S. locations
by 2032. The decision isn’t merely about
drinks—it reflects a fundamental shift in how
customers interact with restaurants today.
Digital sales now represent 40% of
McDonald’s total revenue, highlighting a
dramatic shift toward drive-thru and delivery
services. With fewer customers dining in,
maintaining large self-serve drink stations has
become increasingly impractical. This
transformation aligns with McDonald’s vision
for future restaurant designs, which may
feature smaller dining areas or none at all. New automated beverage systems will mechanically fill
drink orders, ensuring consistency across all ordering channels. This standardization means that
whether you’re ordering through the app, drive-thru, or in person, your drinking experience
remains identical. Beyond adapting to changing consumer habits, this shift brings several
operational advantages. The removal of self-serve stations helps maintain cleaner dining areas and
reduces maintenance requirements. The transition period until 2032 allows franchisees ample time
to adapt their operations and implement new systems gradually. This methodical approach ensures
minimal disruption to daily operations while maintaining customer satisfaction.1
This shift represents part of a broader industry trend. Other major chains like Chick-fil-A and Taco
Bell are also experimenting with new service models that emphasize efficiency and automation.
1. Wright, D. (2024, November 19). Why self-serve soda stations are disappearing from McDonald’s. GrubHub.
11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 545

[Page 578]
These changes reflect an industry-wide movement toward more streamlined operations that better
serve modern consumer preferences.2
Facilities
When starting or e xpanding a servic e business, o wners and managers must in vest a lot of time in sele cting a
location, determining its size and layout, and forecasting demand. A poor location or a badly designed facility
can deter customers, and inaccurate estimates of demand for products can result in poor service, excessive costs,
or both.
Site Selection
Site sele ction is also c ritical in the servic e industry, but not f or the same reasons as in the manuf acturing
industry. Servic e businesses ne ed to be ac cessible to customers. Some servic e businesses, such as c able-TV
providers, p ackage-delivery servic es, and e-retailers, go to their customers. M any others, ho wever—hotels,
restaurants, stores, hospitals, and airports—have to attract customers to their facilities. These businesses must
locate where there’s a high v olume of a vailable customers. In picking a loc ation, service companies perform
a detailed analysis of demograp hics and traffic patterns; the number of pe ople that pass by a specific location
in the c ourse of a da y. In Canada, where w e travel almost everywhere by car, it would make sense f or service
businesses to look for busy intersections, highway interchanges with easy off and on ramps, or such “primary
destinations” as shopping malls, tourist attractions, do wntown business areas, or mo vie theatres. In Europe,
public transportation service firms might focus on subway, train, bus, and trolley stops.
Once planners find a site with an ac ceptable traffic count, they app ly other c riteria. It must, f or example,
be easy for vehicles to enter and e xit the site, and it must also pro vide enough p arking to handle proje cted
dine-in business. Local zoning must permit standard signage, especially along major highways. Finally, expected
business must be high enough to justify the cost of the land and building, and future projections of economic
growth (expansion) should be positive.
2. Wright, D. (2024, November 19). Why self-serve soda stations are disappearing from McDonald’s. GrubHub.
546 | 11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 579]
Size and Layout
In the servic e se ctor, most businesses must design their f acilities with the customer in mind: they must
accommodate the needs of their customers while ke eping costs as low as possible. It may be more convenient
for a hospital to p lace its freight elev ators in the c enter of the building, f or example, but doing so ma y block
the flow of patients, visitors, and medical personnel between floors and departments. The layout of a fast-food
restaurant can help the emp loyees involved in different parts of the proc ess—preparing the f ood and serving
customers—to work in a more integrate d fashion. For example, the p lacement of prep ared orders, ready f or
packaging, is near the front c ounter and drive-thru staff, to make it easier f or these staff to pick up the order,
put it in a bag or on a tray, and deliver it to the customer.
Service organizations often design operations to adapt quickly to changing demands. F or example, a c all
center may scale its workforce during promotions or crisis situations.
As mentioned previously, there are four main types of facility layouts: process, product, fixed-position, and
cellular. A company may also choose to combine any of these layouts into a hybrid layout. To learn more about
each type, refer to the end-of-chapter exercises and complete the Service Facility Layout exercise.
Capacity Planning
Estimating capacity needs for a servic e business isn’t the same thing as estimating those of a manuf acturer.
Service pro viders c an’t store their products f or later use: hairdressers c an’t “in ventory” haircuts, and
amusement parks can’t “inventory” roller-coaster rides. Service firms have to build sufficient capacity to satisfy
customers’ ne eds on an “as-demande d” b asis. Like manuf acturers, servic e pro viders must c onsider man y
variables when estimating demand and capacity:
• How many customers will we have?
• When will they want our services (which days of the week, which times of the day)?
• How long will it take to serve each customer?
• How will external factors, such as weather or holidays, affect the demand for our services?
Since services are often produced and consumed simultaneously, capacity planning is crucial. Service managers
need to ensure that there is ade quate staffing, e quipment, and sp ace to me et customer demand without
overburdening employees or c reating excess capacity. For instance, call centers may adjust staffing b ased on
forecasted call volumes.
Forecasting demand is easier for companies that have a long history of planning facilities than for brand-new
service businesses. Existing c ompanies can predict sales f or a new restaurant b y combining their kno wledge
of customer-servic e p atterns at e xisting restaurants with inf ormation c ollected about each new loc ation,
including the number of cars or people passing the proposed site and the effect of nearby competition.
11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 547

[Page 580]
Media Attributions
“Teaches, Sign, Fast food image” by akiragiulia, used under the Pixabay license.
548 | 11.10: OPERATIONS PLANNING FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 581]
11.11: OPERATIONS CONTROL FOR SERVICE
PROVIDERS
Overseeing a service organization puts special demands on managers, especially those running businesses, such
as hotels, la w firms, and healthc are pro viders, who ha ve a high degre e of c ontact with customers. Servic e
firms provide customers with personal attention and must satisfy their ne eds in a timely manner. This task is
complicated by the f act that demand c an vary greatly o ver the c ourse of an y given day. Managers, therefore,
must pay particular attention to employee work schedules and, in many cases, inventory management.
Managing servic e operations is about more than the efficienc y of servic e. It is about finding a b alance
between profitability, innovation, customer satisfaction and associate satisfaction, sometimes referred to as the
balanced scorecard. The balanced scorecard model utilizes 360-degree feedback, a process of collecting feedback
from all of a business’s stakeholders, in order to improve operational efficiency.
Customer Experience
Moment of Truth marketing refers to the type of marketing that takes p lace at the moment when a customer
interacts with a product, brand, or service, and forms or changes their impression about it. Moments can range
from calling a help line, checking in at an airline counter, being greeted by a hostess in a restaurant, to having a
maintenance problem resolved in a hotel guest room. The quality of staff a company hires, how they train their
employees, and the focus management places on creating a culture of service will determine how successful the
company is in service delivery and maximizing the imp act of these moments of truth. Emp loyee performance
directly impacts service delivery, so effective training and engagement are key . Service organizations in vest in
training programs to ensure employees understand customer expectations and are equipped to handle diverse
situations.
Both of the f ollowing c ompanies emp hasize the importanc e of in vesting in their emp loyees’ training to
ensure excellent service, which is a key differentiator in their respective industries.
RBC is reno wned f or its c ommitment to customer servic e e xcellence. The b ank off ers c omprehensive
training to its employees through its “Customer First” programs, which are designed to ensure that employees
at all levels understand and meet customer needs. They emphasize skills like active listening, problem-solving,
and deliv ering personalize d servic e. RBC has be en re cognized f or its e xceptional customer servic e in the
11.11: OPERATIONS CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 549

[Page 582]
Managers must schedule the right number of
employees for peak times.
banking industry, contributing to its reputation as a customer-centric financial institution. Additionally, RBC
has won various awards for customer satisfaction and service quality over the years.1
The Keg is another Canadian c ompany famous for its customer servic e. Known for its high-quality f ood
and friendly atmosphere, The Keg invests significantly in employee training programs that focus on delivering
an exceptional dining e xperience. Their training includes both te chnical aspects (such as menu kno wledge)
and soft skills (like interpersonal c ommunication and emp athy), which ensures that emp loyees can connect
with guests on a personal lev el and pro vide top-notch servic e. The Keg’s f ocus on training and emp loyee
empowerment has led it to rank consistently high in customer satisfaction in the restaurant industry.2
Scheduling
In manuf acturing, managers f ocus on sche duling
the activities needed to transform raw materials into
finished goods. Servic e organizations f ocus on
scheduling w orkers so that they’re a vailable to
handle fluctuating customer demand. Restaurants,
for e xample, will ha ve more customers during the
peak periods of breakf ast, lunch, and dinner, but
also during the slo wer periods in betw een. If the
manager schedules too many people, the labour cost
per sales do llar will be too high. If there aren’t
enough employees, customers have to wait in line. When that happens, some get disc ouraged and even leave,
and many may never come back.
Scheduling is made easier b y information provided by a point-of-sale devic e built into man y cash registers
(also known as point-of-sale or POS machines). F or restaurants, the register stores data on ev ery sandwich,
beverage, and side order so ld by the hour, ev ery hour of the da y, every day of the w eek and sends that data
to a c omputer system that helps managers set sche dules. To determine ho w many people will be ne eded for
next Thursday’s lunch hour, the manager reviews last Thursda y’s data, using sales rev enue to determine the
appropriate staffing level. Each manager c an adjust this f orecast to ac count for other f actors, such as current
marketing promotions or a local sporting event that will increase customer traffic.
1. RBC. (n.d.). Our company.
2. The Keg. (n.d.). Our story.
550 | 11.11: OPERATIONS CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 583]
Inventory Control
Businesses that pro vide both goods and servic es, such as retail stores and auto-rep air shops, ha ve the same
inventory c ontrol prob lems as manuf acturers: ke eping lev els too high c osts money, while running out of
inventory costs sales. Technology, such as the point-of-sale (POS) registers, makes the job easier. POS s ystems
track everything sold during a given time and provide information on how much of each item should be kept
in inventory.
For fast-food restaurants, for example, it also makes it possib le to c ount the number of burgers and buns,
bags and racks of fries, and bo xes of bev erage mixes at the beginning or end of each shift. Be cause there are
fixed numbers of supp lies—say, beef patties or bags of fries—in each bo x, employees simply count boxes and
multiply. In just a few minutes, the manager knows whether the inventory is correct (and should be able to see
if any theft has occurred on the shift).
Operations managers must strike a b alance between two threats to productivity: losing production time
because they have run out of materials, and wasting money because they are carrying too much inventory. The
process of striking this b alance is c alled inventory control, and c ompanies now regularly rely on a v ariety of
inventory-control methods.
Service operations often rely on technology to streamline processes. For example, service organizations may
implement Customer Relationship M anagement (CRM) s ystems, scheduling software, or automation too ls
to improve efficiency. Integrating technology helps reduce errors, improve customer interactions, and facilitate
communication across departments.
Outsourcing in the Service Sector
Outsourcing is b y no means limite d to the manuf acturing se ctor. Servic e pro viders also outsourc e man y
of their non-c ore functions. Some univ ersities, f or instanc e, outsourc e functions such as f ood servic es,
maintenance, bookstore sales, printing, grounds keeping, security, and even residence operations. For example,
there are several firms, like RGIS, that offer inventory services. They will send a team to your company to count
your inventory for you. As RGIS puts it, “Our teams e xpertly deliver complete solutions needed to complete
a wide v ariety of retail proje cts of all sizes, allo wing your team to ke ep customer servic e as the number one
priority.”3
Some software developers outsource portions of coding as a cost-saving measure. If you’ve ever had
to get phone or chat assistance on your laptop, there’s a good chance you spoke with someone in an outsourced
call c entre. The c entre itself ma y ha ve ev en be en loc ated offshore. This kind of arrangement c an present
unique challenges in quality control, as differences in accents and the use of slang words can sometimes inhibit
3. RGIS. (n.d.). Retail.
11.11: OPERATIONS CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 551

[Page 584]
understanding. Nevertheless, in this era of glob alization, we expect the trend to ward offshore outsourcing to
continue.
Media Attributions
“Cafe, Busy, People image” by protowink, used under the Pixabay license.
552 | 11.11: OPERATIONS CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 585]
11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE
PROVIDERS
What if you were late for a test because it took you twenty minutes to get a burger and fries at a drive-through
window? Like most pe ople, y ou’d prob ably be more or less disgruntle d. As a customer, y ou’re c onstantly
assured that service will be of the highest possible quality, and you tend to avoid brands that have failed to live
up to your expectations. When you go to a drive-thru window, you expect to be served in a reasonable amount
of time. If your expectations are not met, you’ll conclude that you’re the victim of poor customer service.
Customer-Centric Approach
Quality in servic e businesses starts with understanding customer e xpectations. Service providers like hotels,
restaurants, and consultancies focus on exceeding customer satisfaction by continuously improving customer
interactions, responsiveness, and personalize d service. This includes using customer f eedback and measuring
satisfaction levels through surveys and reviews.
Employee Training and Empowerment
For servic e businesses, emp loyees are the c ore of servic e deliv ery. Regular training is essential to ensure
employees have the skills and knowledge to meet customer needs and adhere to quality standards. Empowering
employees to take initiative and resolve customer issues promptly is a key component of maintaining quality.
Total Quality Management (TQM)
Quality in service businesses is manage d differently from manufacturing, but the princip les of Total Quality
Management (T QM) and c ontinuous impro vement still app ly. The T QM c oncept in volves all emp loyees;
when customers wait too long at a drive-thru window, it’s the responsibility of a number of employees, not the
manager alone.
TQM ensures quality, and it also considers the customer. A good example of a company that benefited from
11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 553

[Page 586]
TQM is Exx on. With the fuel business ev er so c ompetitive, Exxon felt the ne ed to e xplore customer-related
issues by using TQM rather than relying only on competitive pricing.1
How Exxon Benefited from TQM
Customer Focus: TQM encourages companies to deeply understand and address customer
needs. For Exxon, this meant not only offering competitive prices but also improving the quality
and reliability of their products. By involving customers in feedback loops and continuously
improving based on their input, Exxon could strengthen customer loyalty.
Process Improvement: TQM emphasizes continuous improvement in processes. Exxon
adopted this by analyzing and refining every part of its supply chain and operations, from
sourcing raw materials to refining oil to the customer experience at its service stations. This
process improvement helped to reduce waste, increase efficiency, and improve service,
ultimately enhancing product quality.
Employee Involvement: TQM encourages employee involvement in decision-making and
problem-solving. Exxon empowered employees at all levels to contribute ideas for improving
quality, thus fostering a culture of quality and teamwork. This involvement helped to identify
the root causes of issues and implement solutions more effectively.
While pricing may drive initial purchases, customers are more likely to return to a brand that
provides a consistent, high-quality experience. By focusing on TQM, Exxon was able to create a
more holistic improvement in all facets of the business, which in turn increased brand loyalty
and customer satisfaction.
Statistical Process Control (SPC)
While SPC originate d in manuf acturing, it is also app licable in servic e industries, p articularly those where
consistency and quality are essential, such as c all centres, healthcare, and financial servic es. SPC in servic es
focuses on maintaining c onsistent service quality and impro ving processes that affect customer satisf action,
such as w ait times, error rates, or customer c omplaints. For example, in a c all center, SPC c ould be use d to
1. Scheid, J. (n.d.). What are some of the companies that benefit from TQM? BrightHubPM.
554 | 11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 587]
monitor the average wait time for customers, ensuring that the process remains efficient and that quality service
is delivered consistently.
Just as in manuf acturing, services benefit from standardize d processes. For instance, fast-food chains like
McDonald’s rely on standard operating proc edures (SOPs) to ensure c onsistent product and servic e quality.
This is particularly important in servic e industries that rely on repeatability , such as healthc are or education,
where maintaining consistent service delivery can prevent errors.
Continuous Improvement (Kaizen)
Kaizen translates to “change f or the better” or “continuous impro vement.” The c oncept be came widely
known through its use in Japanese manufacturing, particularly at Toyota, and has since been adopted globally
across industries. Kaizen is a c ontinuous impro vement appro ach f ocused on making small, inc remental
changes to processes, aiming to enhance quality, efficiency, and service delivery. In the service industry, Kaizen
encourages emp loyee in volvement and ongoing eff orts to impro ve customer satisf action and operational
performance.
Quality in servic e businesses is not static. T o achiev e c ontinuous impro vement, servic e businesses often
use tools like customer satisfaction surveys, service audits, and performance evaluations. These methods allow
businesses to identify gaps in service delivery, implement improvements, and monitor progress.
Measuring Service Quality (SERVQUAL)
The SERVQUAL model 2
is commonly used in service industries to measure quality ac ross five dimensions:
reliability, responsiv eness, assuranc e, emp athy, and tangib les. This framew ork allo ws businesses to identify
specific areas where they c an impro ve to me et or e xceed customer e xpectations. F or e xample, in the hotel
industry, quality is measure d b y guest satisf action, cleanliness, che ck-in and che ck-out spe ed, and staff
behaviour. Hotels often emp loy m ystery shoppers to assess the servic e quality and use ratings from tra vel
websites like T ripAdvisor to track perf ormance. Hospitals and healthc are providers use quality metrics like
patient satisfaction surveys, wait times, and treatment success rates to evaluate service quality. They also focus
heavily on training staff, ensuring compliance with health regulations, and improving patient care processes.3

2. Parasuraman, A., Zeithaml, V . A., & Berry , L. L. (1988). SER VQUAL: A multip le-item sc ale f or measuring c onsumer perc eptions of servic e
quality. Journal of Retailing, 64(1), 12–40.
3. OpenAI. (2023). ChatGPT (Jan 21 version) [Large language model].
11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 555

[Page 588]
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Alex Budzinski
Alex Budzinski
Alex has over twenty years of experience in utility construction, with a focus on civil foundation construction.
Alex starte d in the industry as a Proje ct Administrator and grew into ro les in Construction and Proje ct
Management. Between 2012 and 2018, in his roles as Project Manager and Construction Manager, Alex helped
lead multiple major projects for the Valard Group of Comp anies involving the installation of 2,400 km of a
high-voltage transmission line.
In 2020, Ale x helped found the Ja va Group and is no w responsible for overseeing their North Americ an
operations, acting as CEO of V ictor Energy , Rising E dge Group , Helic al Pile So lutions, Prof essional
Excavators and Megaverse Geomatics.
“As Vice President, Operations for JAVA Holdings, I am responsible for the development and oversight of our
growth strategy and building the associated teams to support that growth in North America. My primary role
is understanding risk, mitigating impacts, building vertical integration between the Operational Units, and
ensuring compliance with our global vision for our group of companies. My passion is problem solving and
tackling big projects with big risks—something that, regardless of my day-to-day duties as an executive, is still
a paramount responsibility as a contractor in the utility and construction market.”
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Ale x Budzinski. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
556 | 11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS

[Page 589]
CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Donna Schwartzentruber
Donna Schwartzentruber
After a long c areer in Operations M anagement, Donna no w leverages her e xtensive operations and supp ly
chain expertise to assist others. Currently, she works as a consultant to the operations manager and an advisor
to the owner of Classteel Inc., a steel fabricator in Ayr, Ontario. Her role as an advisor involves providing longterm strategic guidanc e and building relationships, while her c onsultant duties focus on short-term, proje ctbased solutions to specific problems.
Her career highlights include:
• Graduating from Conestoga College with a degree in Business Administration.
• Pursuing continuing education for over 25 years at various colleges and universities, earning certifications in
purchasing, management, supply chain, and leadership.
• Gaining experience in distribution, software development, and manufacturing industries.
• Serving as an operations manager and immersing herself in operations and supp ly chain management for 40
years, reporting directly to CEOs and owners.
“Working in operations and supply chain management has offered me substantial career growth, strong job
demand, and the ability to make a real impact on businesses. By collaborating with team members, we are able
to optimize our processes and systems that move goods and services from vendors to customers, focusing on
efficiency, cost reduction, and customer satisfaction.”
Attribution: Photograph and text © Donna Schwartzentruber. Used under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
11.12: QUALITY CONTROL FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS | 557

[Page 590]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Production refers to the process of transforming inputs (such as labour, capital, and raw
materials) into outputs (goods and services) that a firm wishes to sell.
2. Value is the customer’s perception of the benefits they receive compared to the cost or
effort required to obtain the product. It is subjective and influenced by factors like branding,
emotional appeal, and customer experience.
3. Utility refers to the inherent usefulness or the ability of a product or service to satisfy a
customer’s needs and wants. It is often measurable and tied directly to functionality.
4. Operations Management is a vital component of any business, encompassing the
practices, techniques, and tools that organizations use to produce and deliver goods and
services efficiently and effectively.
5. A supply chain refers to the network of individuals, organizations, resources, activities, and
technologies involved in the production and distribution of a product or service. It
encompasses every stage from sourcing raw materials to delivering the final product or
service to the consumer.
6. Supply chain management (SCM) is the monitoring and optimization of the production
and distribution of a company’s products and services. It seeks to improve and make more
efficient all processes involved in turning raw materials and components into final products
and getting them to the ultimate customer.
7. The circular economy represents a paradigm shift from the traditional linear model of
“take-make-dispose” to a regenerative approach that emphasizes the restoration and
regeneration of products, materials and energy. It challenges conventional metrics of value
creation and encourages manufacturers to design products and business models with
durability, repairability and recyclability in mind.
8. Outsourcing in business refers to the practice of contracting out certain business functions,
tasks, or processes to external vendors or service providers, rather than handling them in558 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 591]
house.
9. Operations managers manage the process that transforms inputs into outputs. Their
responsibilities can be grouped as follows: production planning, production control, and
quality control. Managing service operations is about more than the efficiency of service.
10. Effective production planning requires a thorough analysis of market demand, capacity
capabilities, and available resources.
11. Products are customized to meet the needs of the buyers who order them. This process is
called a make-to-order strategy.
12. Mass production (or make-to-stock strategy) is the practice of producing high volumes
of identical goods at a cost low enough to price them for large numbers of customers.
13. Mass customization combines the advantages of customized products with those of mass
production. This approach requires that a company interact with the customer to find out
exactly what the customer wants and then manufacture the goods, using efficient
production methods to hold down costs.
14. Site selection involves measuring the needs of a new project against the merits of potential
locations. Site selection is also critical in the service industry, but not for the same reasons as
in the manufacturing industry. Service businesses need to be accessible to customers.
15. The facility layout is the physical arrangement of resources. In the service sector, most
businesses must design their facilities with the customer in mind: they must accommodate
the needs of their customers while keeping costs as low as possible.
16. The capacity requirements of the production facility refers to the maximum number of
goods that it can produce over a given time under normal working conditions. Estimating the
capacity needs for a service business isn’t the same thing as estimating those of a
manufacturer. Service providers can’t store their products for later use: hairdressers can’t
“inventory” haircuts, and amusement parks can’t “inventory” roller-coaster rides. Service
firms have to build sufficient capacity to satisfy customers’ needs on an “as-demanded”
basis.
17. The process of acquiring the materials and services to be used in production is called
purchasing (or procurement).
18. Businesses that provide both goods and services, such as retail stores and auto-repair shops,
have the same inventory control problems as manufacturers: keeping levels too high costs
money, while running out of inventory costs sales. Businesses must strike a balance between
two threats to productivity: not enough inventory and carrying too much inventory. The
process of striking this balance is called inventory control, and companies now regularly
rely on a variety of inventory-control methods.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 559

[Page 592]
19. In manufacturing, managers focus on scheduling the activities needed to transform raw
materials into finished goods. In service organizations, managers focus on scheduling
workers so that they’re available to handle fluctuating customer demand.
20. With Just-in-Time (JIT) production, the manufacturer arranges for materials to arrive at
production facilities just in time to enter the manufacturing process.
21. A software tool called Material Requirements Planning (MRP), relies on sales forecasts
and ordering lead times for materials to calculate the quantity of each component part
needed for production and then determine when they should be ordered or made.
22. A Gantt chart, named after the designer, Henry Gantt, is an easy-to-use graphical tool that
helps operations managers determine the status of projects.
23. PERT (Program Evaluation and Review Technique) charts are designed to diagram the
activities required to produce a good, specify the time required to perform each activity in the
process, and organize activities in the most efficient sequence. It also identifies a critical path:
the sequence of activities that will entail the greatest amount of time.
24. Computer-Aided-Design (CAD) refers to the use of computer software to create, modify,
analyze, or optimize a design.
25. Computer-Aided-Manufacturing (CAM) refers to the use of computer software and
hardware to control and automate manufacturing processes.
26. Computer-Integrated-Manufacturing (CIM) represents a comprehensive approach to
manufacturing where CAD, CAM, and other business and manufacturing processes are
integrated using computer systems.
27. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is a broader, integrated system that manages and
automates a company’s core business processes across multiple departments, including
finance, HR, manufacturing, supply chain, sales, and customer relationship management
(CRM). It often incorporates MRP as a module.
28. Quality is defined as the degree to which a product or service meets or exceeds customer
expectations and adheres to established standards or specifications. It is a multifaceted
concept that can be viewed through different lenses, such as product characteristics,
customer satisfaction, and continuous improvement.
29. Total Quality Management (TQM) is the continual process of detecting and reducing or
eliminating errors in manufacturing. It streamlines supply chain management, improves the
customer experience, and ensures that employees are up to speed with training.
30. Statistical Process Control (SPC) is defined as the use of statistical techniques to control a
process or production method. SPC tools and procedures can help you monitor process
behaviour, discover issues in internal systems, and find solutions for production issues.
560 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 593]
Statistical process control is often used interchangeably with Statistical Quality Control (SQC).
31. Operations management in service companies and manufacturing companies differs
significantly due to the nature of their outputs, processes, and customer interaction. Three
main differences include: 1) Intangibility. Manufacturers produce tangible products—things
that can be touched or handled, such as automobiles and appliances. Service companies
provide intangible products, such as banking, entertainment, or education.
2) Customization. Most manufactured goods are standardized. Services, by contrast, are
often customized to satisfy the specific needs of a customer. For example, when you go to
the hairdresser, you ask for a haircut that looks good on you because of the shape of your
face and the texture of your hair. 3) Customer contact. You could spend your entire
working life assembling cars in Detroit and never meet a customer who bought a car that
you helped to make. But if you were a restaurant server, you’d interact with customers every
day. In fact, their satisfaction with your product is determined in part by the service that you
provide. Unlike manufactured goods, many services are bought and consumed at the same
time.
32. Managing service operations is about more than efficiency of service. It is about finding a
balance between profitability, innovation, customer satisfaction and associate satisfaction,
sometimes referred to as the balanced scorecard. The balanced scorecard model utilizes 360
degree feedback, a process of collecting feedback from all of a business’s stakeholders, in
order to improve operational efficiency.
33. The SERVQUAL model is commonly used in service industries to measure quality across
five dimensions: reliability, responsiveness, assurance, empathy, and tangibles. This
framework allows businesses to identify specific areas where they can improve to meet or
exceed customer expectations.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 11: Operations Management [PDF].
CHAPTER REVIEW | 561

[Page 594]
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. Product and Service Company. Use the Internet to research why GE and IBM (or other
companies as assigned by your professor) are considered manufacturing companies, and at
the same time, considered two of the largest, most competitive, service operations in the
world. What did you discover? Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
2. Utility. Use the Internet to research a product or service you use. Which of the four types of
utility does this product or service hold? How do the attributes of the product or service (list
the product or service features) bring the benefits you want or need ( think about what’s
important to you), and thus, the value you appreciate (consider which benefits are valuable
to you)? Discuss with your class and/or professor.
3. Manufacturing Facility Layout. Use the Internet to research the types of facility layouts
for manufacturing: process layout, product layout, fixed-position, and cellular layout. Provide
an example of when each type of layout would be the best choice. (Pick an example that’s
not already mentioned in the chapter.) Explain. Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
4. Service Facility Layout. Use the Internet to research the types of facility layout for ONE of
the following: bank, hair salon, automobile repair shop, supercenter department store (or
another as assigned by your professor). Explain how the layout enhances production,
service, and overall capacity. Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
5. Site Location. Use the Internet to research how a service company, Starbucks (or another),
determines where to locate. Which tools does the company use to help make decisions?
What research does the company do before making a decision? Share your findings with the
class and/or professor.
6. Quality Certification for Businesses. Use the Internet to research ONE of the well-known
company quality certifications such as ISO14001, ISO9001, ISO14000, Six Sigma, IATF16949,
ISO13485, UKCA/CE Mark, LEED, Fair Trade, Green Seal, TRUE, Cradle to Cradle, and Forest
Stewardship Council. Why would a company want this certification? What are the
certification requirements? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
7. Quality Management Professional Certification. Use the Internet to research ONE of
the well-known personal quality certifications such as CMQ/OE, CSQP, CQIA, CQPA, CCT, CQI,
562 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 595]
CQT, CSSBB, CSSGB, CSSYB, DMBB, CFSQA, CMDA, CPGP, CQA, CRE, and CSSQE. Why would
an individual want this certification? What are the certification requirements? Share your
findings with the class and/or professor.
8. Total Quality Management (TQM). Use the Internet to locate information on how a
company can implement total quality management (TQM) successfully. Provide tips, benefits,
and a company example. Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
9. ERP. Use the Internet to research enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems. Which are the
most popular? What does a system cost? Can businesses customize ERP systems for their
own industry or type of business? Provide an example of a company using a specific ERP.
Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
10. Outsourcing. Use the Internet to research three (3) ways in which a company can maintain
control over outsourced operations. Share your findings with your class and/or professor.
11. CAD/CAM. Use the Internet to locate specific examples of how CAD/CAM and/or CIM is used
in ONE of these industries: healthcare, construction, jewellery design, or aerospace. Share
your findings with the class and/or professor.
12. Industrial Robots. Use the Internet to search for several industrial robot production
companies. What kinds of functions are these robots being used for? Which industries are
these robots best suited for? Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
13. Cafeteria Facility Layout. Visit your college or university cafeteria and redesign the layout
(pencil and paper will do) so that the facility (employees included) could serve its customers
more effectively and efficiently. Share your layout with your class and/or professor.
14. Quality Problem. Use the Internet to research ONE company that has had a recent recall on
a product. What went wrong? Does the company apply quality measures? How did the
company correct the issue? How might the company have avoided this issue? Share your
findings and conclusions with the class and/or professor.
15. Bill of Material (BOM). Use the Internet to learn about BOM. What software might be
used to record a BOM? How could this information be used in an ERP system? Create a
manufacturing bill of materials for each of the following products: baby carriage, chocolate
chip cookies, and a pair of leather sneakers. Share your BOMs with the class and/or
professor.
16. Company Research. Choose a Global 500 company to research (or another as assigned by
your professor). Write a short report that includes the following:
◦ Identify the company and its inputs and outputs.
◦ Identify suppliers and any electronic data interchange (EDI) setup they may have.
◦ Identify Quality Control systems and Credentials (if any).
CHAPTER REVIEW | 563

[Page 596]
◦ Identify transportation methods used and costs of transportation methods.
◦ Identify the ERP this company uses.
Self-Check Exercise: Operations Management Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=403#h5p-25
Self-Check Exercise: Operations Management Terms
Drag-the-Words
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
564 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 597]
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=403#h5p-26
Additional Resources
• Association for Supply Chain Management
• The Canadian Chapter of the Society of Quality Assurance
• American Society of Quality Assurance
• International Facility Management Association—Path to the CFM Exam
• Certification in Production and Inventory Management (CPIM)
• APICS Certifications
• SAP Certifications
• International Trade Certifications
• The P. Log Designation
• Canada’s Logistics Association and CCLP Designation
• What are the Best Companies for a Supply Chain Management Career?
• Mass Customization (Operations Management). YouTube Video.
• Operations Management. YouTube Video.
• Project Management in Under 5: What is a Gantt Chart? YouTube Video.
• Project Management in Under 5: What is a PERT Chart? YouTube Video.
• Harley-Davidson’s Operations Management & Productivity.
• What is Just-in-Time (JIT) Inventory Management? YouTube Video.
• Circular Economy. CSA Group.
• Circular Economy, Stories. World Economic Forum.
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
CHAPTER REVIEW | 565

[Page 598]
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
566 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 599]
CHAPTER 12: INFORMATION AND
RISK MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 12: INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT | 567

[Page 600]
568 | CHAPTER 12: INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT

[Page 601]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Business information refers to c ollective data relate d to a c ompany and its operations, including statistic al
information, raw analytical data, customer feedback, and sales numbers.1
In toda y’s f ast-evolving digital era, businesses depend hea vily on data and inf ormation f or operations,
customer relations, innovation, and strategic planning. The effective use and management of information have
become fundamental to achieving organizational go als. While the benefits of robust inf ormation systems are
significant, they come with challenges, particularly in ensuring security and effective utilization.2
The integration of te chnology in modern business has brought about a rev olutionary transf ormation
by automating proc esses and enhancing efficienc y. Today, businesses are lev eraging te chnology to gain a
competitive edge, improve customer experience, and optimize resource allocation. Emerging technologies such
as artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and robotic process automation (RPA) are now part of a
solid business strategy. These technologies help businesses to streamline operations, re duce human error, and
optimize resource allocation. For instance, AI-powered chatbots can help businesses to provide 24/7 customer
support, while RPA can automate repetitive tasks, thus freeing employees to focus on more complex tasks.3
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Explain how analyzing Big Data can help businesses.
2. Express some of the major threats to data security a business may experience.
3. Clarify what is meant by “information sharing” and the challenges this may present.
1. Indeed Editorial Team. (2024, August 15). What is data in business? (Plus importance and examples). Indeed.
2. Arora, R. (2024, August 23). Technology in today’s business world. Momentum.
3. U-Tech Electronics. (n.d.). The impact of technology on modern business: A comprehensive analysis.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 569

[Page 602]
4. Define information mining and visualization.
5. Explore the key elements and trends in information management and their impact on
business operations.
6. Discuss ways to manage common business risks within one or more sectors.
7. Distinguish between real risk and perceived risk by providing an example of each.
8. Illustrate the major factors that influence an organization’s risk tolerance.
9. Show how risk impacts business and outline the five steps of risk management.
10. Demonstrate the utility of risk management across different sectors.
11. List the most common risk response strategies and provide examples for each.
12. Describe how Artificial Intelligence is being used in business to enhance information and risk
management.
13. Assess the principles and guidelines of ISO 31000 and its role in standardizing risk
management practices.
570 | CHAPTER PREVIEW

[Page 603]
A specialist at a Big Data centre with several server
racks.
12.1: BIG DATA: THE FOUNDATION OF
MODERN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (BI)
Big data refers to datasets that are so large and c omplex that traditional data-proc essing methods c annot
handle them. Its defining characteristics are v olume, v elocity, v ariety, v eracity, and v alue (the 5V s).
Organizations use big data to gain actionable insights by analyzing patterns and trends across various domains.
It impacts various sectors, including transportation, finance, marketing, and healthcare.
Here are a f ew w ays some c ompanies use Big
Data:1
• Customer insights: Retailers like Amazon use
big data analytics to personalize
recommendations and understand purchasing
behaviour.
• Operational efficiency: Manufacturing firms
optimize supply chains and predict equipment
maintenance needs using big data.
• Market analysis: Businesses employ big data to
identify emerging market trends and
competitive analysis.
The financial industry puts Big Data and analytics to highly productive use, for:2
• Fraud detection: Banks monitor credit cardholders’ purchasing patterns and other activity to flag atypical
movements and anomalies that may signal fraudulent transactions.
• Risk management: Big Data analytics enable banks to monitor and report on operational processes,
KPIs, and employee activities.
• Customer relationship optimization: Financial institutions analyze data from website usage and
transactions to better understand how to convert prospects to customers and incentivize greater use of
1. Hillier, W. (2023, September 23). What are some real-world examples of big data? CareerFoundry.
2. MongoDB. (n.d.). 9 big data examples & use cases.
12.1: BIG DATA: THE FOUNDATION OF MODERN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (BI) | 571

[Page 604]
various financial products.
• Personalized marketing: Banks use Big Data to construct rich profiles of individual customer lifestyles,
preferences, and goals, which are then utilized for micro-targeted marketing initiatives.
Big data presents challenges in storage, proc essing, and ensuring the ac curacy of analyses. Comp anies need
robust infrastructures and skilled professionals to extract meaningful insights from massive datasets.
Media Attributions
“Software Engineer Standing Beside Server Racks” by Christina Morillo, used under the Pexels license.
572 | 12.1: BIG DATA: THE FOUNDATION OF MODERN BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (BI)

[Page 605]
12.2: DATA SECURITY: PROTECTING
VALUABLE ASSETS
Data se curity is essential to prote ct sensitiv e inf ormation from breaches, unauthorize d ac cess, and
cyberattacks. As businesses store v ast amounts of data, se curing this inf ormation is c ritical to maintaining
customer trust and meeting regulatory requirements. For example, financial institutions implement advanced
cybersecurity measures, such as anomaly detection systems, to protect customer data.1
The 2017 Equifax data
breach exposed the personal data of hundre ds of millions of individuals, mostly from the U.S. but also from
the U.K. and Canada, due to unp atched software vulnerabilities, undersc oring the importanc e of pro active
cybersecurity measures.2
A few of the major threats include:
• Cyberattacks: Incidents like ransomware and phishing attacks can compromise sensitive information.
• Insider threats: Employees or contractors with malicious intent pose risks.
• Third-party vulnerabilities: Vendors and supply chain partners with inadequate security measures may
expose a business’s data.
A few of the best practices include:
• Encrypting sensitive data both in transit and at rest.
• Regularly updating security software and protocols.
• Training employees to recognize potential threats.
1. MongoDB. (n.d.). 9 big data examples & use cases. CareerFoundry.
2. Wikipedia. (n.d.). 2017 Equifax data breach.
12.2: DATA SECURITY: PROTECTING VALUABLE ASSETS | 573

[Page 606]
The Inside Story of the 2017 Equifax Data Breach
Watch the video on the 2017 Equifax data breach to understand the sequence of events that
triggered the breach, its widespread impact, and the essential takeaways for individuals and
organizations aiming to strengthen their cybersecurity defences.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=413#oembed-1
Transcript for “The Inside Story of the 2017 Equifax Data Breach” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed
captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: Cyber Flunk. (2024, October 9). The Inside Story of the 2017 Equifax Data Breach. [Video].
YouTube.

574 | 12.2: DATA SECURITY: PROTECTING VALUABLE ASSETS

[Page 607]
12.3: INFORMATION
SHARING—COLLABORATION AND RISKS
In the c ontext of business, information sharing refers to the proc ess of e xchanging data, kno wledge or
insights between teams and organizations. Eff ective information sharing is crucial for fostering collaboration
and impro ving de cision-making both within and ac ross organizations. F or instanc e, supp ly chain p artners
exchange real-time inventory data to streamline logistics, minimize dela ys, and enhance operational efficiency.
While seamless information flow supports collaboration, it also introduces potential risks, particularly in terms
of data security and privacy. To mitigate these risks, companies rely on secure communication platforms such
as Slack or Mic rosoft Teams, imp lementing stringent ac cess c ontrols to saf eguard sensitiv e inf ormation. A
notable example is M cDonald’s, which c ollects and analyzes data from its glob al outlets to refine its driv ethru service, optimize customer experiences, and customize its digital offerings based on local preferences and
patterns. By b alancing efficient inf ormation sharing with robust se curity measures, c ompanies c an unlock
operational efficiencies while protecting their data.1
While inf ormation sharing off ers signific ant benefits, it also c arries inherent risks. Share d data c an be
misappropriated or lead to priv acy violations, and the use of interc onnected networks can amplify the risk of
a breach affecting multiple stakeholders simultaneously. This makes it essential f or organizations to prioritize
security when facilitating the exchange of information.
Fortunately, advancements in te chnology provide robust so lutions to ensure se cure information sharing.
Blockchain te chnology, f or instanc e, guarante es data integrity and se cure transactions in de centralized
environments, making it ideal for safeguarding shared information. Additionally, secure file-sharing platforms
like Dropbox Business and Google Workspace offer controlled access to sensitive data, enabling organizations
to manage permissions and prote ct c onfidential inf ormation while still f ostering c ollaboration. These
technologies help mitigate the risks associated with information sharing by providing a secure, transparent, and
efficient means of exchanging data.
1. Hillier, W. (2023, September 23). What are some real-world examples of big data? CareerFoundry.
12.3: INFORMATION SHARING—COLLABORATION AND RISKS | 575

[Page 608]
What are the Six Important Business Objectives of
Information Technology?
Watch the YouTube video below, “What are the Six Important Business Objectives of Information
Technology?” to learn more about how technology supports business processes.
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=416#oembed-1
Transcript for “What are the Six Important Business Objectives of Information Technology?” video
[PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is available on YouTube.
Source: BusinessGuide360. (2024, November 30). What are the six important business objectives
of information technology? [Video]. YouTube.

576 | 12.3: INFORMATION SHARING—COLLABORATION AND RISKS

[Page 609]
12.4: INFORMATION MINING AND
VISUALIZATION
Data mining is the proc ess of e xtracting v aluable p atterns, trends, and relationships from large v olumes
of data. Businesses lev erage various techniques such as clustering, classific ation, and pre dictive modelling to
uncover actionable insights that drive decision-making and strategic initiatives. Two common examples of data
mining applications are:
• Fraud detection: Financial institutions, like banks, use data mining techniques to analyze transaction
patterns and identify anomalies that may indicate fraudulent activities. By recognizing these unusual
patterns, banks can take proactive measures to prevent fraud and protect customer assets.
• Customer segmentation: Marketers apply clustering algorithms to group customers based on shared
characteristics and behaviours. This allows companies to target specific demographics with tailored
marketing strategies, improving customer engagement and boosting sales.
By utilizing data mining, organizations c an gain de eper insights into their operations, enhanc e de cisionmaking, and impro ve customer e xperiences. Data mining helps businesses identify market trends, pre dict
consumer behaviour, and reduce business risk by uncovering hidden patterns in customer data.
Information mining, on the other hand, is sometimes use d as a broader term that encompasses the process
of gathering, analyzing, and e xtracting kno wledge from v arious sourc es, not just data. It c an ref er to the
process of mining both structure d data (e.g., datab ases) and unstructured information (e.g., text documents,
websites, or social me dia content) to unc over valuable insights. While data mining f ocuses primarily on the
extraction of patterns from large datasets, information mining may involve a more general exploration of data
and unstructured information for knowledge discovery. In many cases, especially in business and analytics, the
terms overlap, and “data mining” is more commonly used to describe the specific practice of extracting valuable
patterns from large data sets.
Visualization converts data into grap hical representations, making c omplex datasets easier to understand
and interpret. Popular tools include Tableau, Power BI, and Google Charts. Netflix uses advanced visualization
to analyze viewer data and recommend personalized content, increasing customer retention and satisfaction.1
1. Hillier, W. (2023, September 23). What are some real-world examples of big data? CareerFoundry.
12.4: INFORMATION MINING AND VISUALIZATION | 577

[Page 610]
Information mining and visualization f acilitate quick understanding of trends and anomalies and
enhance communication of findings to stakeholders.
Despite the adv antages, these te chnologies c ome with challenges such as priv acy c oncerns and ethic al
dilemmas. Organizations must b alance innovation with regulatory c ompliance to build trust with customers
and stakeholders.2
2. Hillier, W. (2023, September 23). What are some real-world examples of big data? CareerFoundry.
578 | 12.4: INFORMATION MINING AND VISUALIZATION

[Page 611]
12.5: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT: AN
INTEGRATED APPROACH
Information manag ement encompasses the c ollection, storage, organization, and distribution of
information to optimize business operations and de cision-making. Managing large v olumes of inf ormation
comes with some challenges. It re quires balancing accessibility with se curity and a voiding information silos
that hinder collaboration.1
Some of the key elements in information management include:
• Data governance: Establishes policies and procedures for data quality, security, and compliance.
• Technology infrastructure: Includes databases, cloud systems, and analytics platforms.
• Employee training: Ensures staff can effectively use and manage information systems.
A few trends in information management include:
• Artificial intelligence: AI streamlines information processing and improves decision-making.
• Cloud adoption: Cloud platforms offer scalable and cost-effective solutions for information
management.
• Automation: Robotic Process Automation (RPA) enhances efficiency in repetitive data tasks.
Future Trends in Business Information
• Edge computing: IoT devices like thermostats, or wearable fitness trackers collect data from the physical
world, and edge computing processes that data nearby—in real time—so decisions can be made quickly
without sending everything to the cloud, thus reducing latency and enhancing real-time decisionmaking.
• Ethical AI and data use: As AI becomes central to information systems, ensuring ethical use and
avoiding biases in data-driven decisions will be critical.
• Advanced cybersecurity measures: Innovations like quantum encryption are expected to redefine data
security.
1. MongoDB. (n.d.). 9 big data examples & use cases. CareerFoundry.
12.5: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT: AN INTEGRATED APPROACH | 579

[Page 612]
Business information plays a crucial role in today’s competitive environment. Leveraging big data, ensuring
data security, adopting efficient inf ormation-sharing mechanisms, and using visualization too ls can provide
significant adv antages. Ho wever, these benefits c ome with challenges, including c yber threats, c ompliance
requirements, and data o verload. Organizations must adopt best practic es in inf ormation management and
invest in emerging technologies to stay resilient and competitive in a data-driven world.2
Self-Check Exercise: Information Management
Drag-the-Words
Check your understanding of information management concepts by completing this short selfcheck quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=420#h5p-27

2. MongoDB. (n.d.). 9 big data examples & use cases. CareerFoundry.
580 | 12.5: INFORMATION MANAGEMENT: AN INTEGRATED APPROACH

[Page 613]
12.6: RISK MANAGEMENT IN BUSINESS
OPERATIONS
Risk is define d ac cording to its c ontext. For e xample, if y ou are c amping in the w oods there is the risk of
meeting a bear; if y ou are walking down stairs there is the risk of f alling; if you are investing in stocks there is
the risk of losing money; if you are hiring a new employee there is the risk they won’t work out, and so on.
Business risk refers to the potential f or a c ompany to e xperience financial losses or other challenges that
could impact its ability to achieve its objectives. These risks arise from uncertainties in the internal and external
environment in which the business operates.
Organizations f ace a wide arra y of unc ertainties that c an disrupt operations, threaten profitability , and
damage reputation. Whether it’s market volatility, technological disruptions, or regulatory changes, the ability
to anticipate, assess, and mitigate risks has be come a crucial part of successful management. This is where risk
management comes into play.1
Risk management is how organizations anticipate and address potential threats.
Risk management in business is a structure d process that identifies, evaluates, and mitigates risks to minimize
their impact.
Types of Business Risks
Understanding the v arious types of risks helps leaders c reate a risk mitigation p lan tailored to their spe cific
industry. Here’s a look at some key risk categories:
• Operational risk arises from internal processes, people, and systems.
• Financial risk is risk that is related to financial operations and transactions.
• Strategic risk stems from business strategies and industry changes.
• Compliance risk is the risk that arises when legal and regulatory requirements are not met.
• Reputational risk impacts public perception and brand reputation.
• Market risk is a result of market dynamics like price and demand fluctuations.
• Credit risk arises due to potential default on financial obligations.
• Technology risks include cybersecurity threats and system failures.
1. Peterson, O. (2019, August 9). The ultimate risk management guide: Everything you need to know. Process.St.
12.6: RISK MANAGEMENT IN BUSINESS OPERATIONS | 581

[Page 614]
Real risk requires high risk tolerance.
12.7: REAL VERSUS PERCEIVED RISK
Real Versus Perceived Risk
Real risks are b acked b y data, evidenc e, or
historical trends. They are measurab le and often
require proactive mitigation. For example, there is a
real risk of a c ar accident when driving on ic y roads
during a Canadian winter. This is a genuine hazard
as ic y c onditions ha ve be en pro ven to inc rease the
likelihood of accidents. Individuals can mitigate this
risk b y installing winter tires, re ducing spe ed, and
checking w eather reports. A real risk to a
manufacturing company is supply chain disruptions
due to ge opolitical tensions or natural disasters.
These risks can halt production or increase costs. By
diversifying supp liers, maintaining in ventory
buffers, and c reating c ontingency p lans, a
manufacturing company can mitigate this risk.
Perceived risks are b ased on f eelings, f ears, or
assumptions and ma y lack c oncrete evidence. They
often result from misinf ormation, cognitive biases,
or heightene d a wareness. F or e xample, despite the
fact that air tra vel is statistic ally much saf er than
driving, some pe ople ha ve a f ear of flying in an
airplane based on news about airp lane crashes. The perc eption arises from me dia coverage and the dramatic
nature of p lane crashes compared to c ar accidents. A perc eived risk f or a business starting up is c ompetition
from established companies within its market. While this is a v alid concern, the more pressing real risk might
be inadequate cash flow or poor internal management, which pose a higher likelihood of failure. The perceived
risk may distract management from addressing the more immediate operational risks.
It’s important to diff erentiate real risks from perc eived risks in both personal and business c ontexts. This
allows individuals and c ompanies to alloc ate resources and attention eff ectively to mitigate genuine threats
while avoiding unnecessary anxiety or misdirection.
582 | 12.7: REAL VERSUS PERCEIVED RISK

[Page 615]
Media Attributions
“Man In Black Tank Top Hanging On A Rope” by Alexandre Cubateli Zanin, used under the Pexels license.
12.7: REAL VERSUS PERCEIVED RISK | 583

[Page 616]
12.8: RISK TOLERANCE
Risk tolerance in a business c ontext refers to the degre e of uncertainty and potential loss an organization is
willing to accept to achieve its objectives. It reflects the company’s capacity and willingness to take on risks as
part of its strategy and decision-making processes.
Factors influencing business risk tolerance include:
• Industry and market environment
• Financial stability
• Leadership and culture
• Strategic goals
• Regulatory and ethical constraints
A startup in vesting hea vily in research and dev elopment (R&D) f or an unteste d product is an e xample of
high risk to lerance. While the potential f or failure is high, the c ompany is willing to take the risk in return
for significant market rew ards. For example, Tesla’s early y ears involved large in vestments in ele ctric vehicle
technology without guaranteed returns.
A f amily-owned retail business that f ocuses on inc remental gro wth and a voids aggressiv e e xpansion to
preserve stability is an e xample of lo w risk to lerance. A good e xample is a loc al grocery store that chooses to
maintain a single location rather than expanding into new markets.
Risk tolerance must align with the company’s mission, values, and objectives to avoid taking on unnecessary
risks or missing gro wth opportunities. Businesses must periodic ally reassess their risk to lerance to adapt
to changing internal and e xternal conditions, such as market shifts, e conomic downturns, or te chnological
advancements.
Personal risk to lerance refers to an individual ’s ability or willingness to ac cept uncertainty and potential
loss in pursuit of a go al. It p lays a c ritical ro le in de cision-making, p articularly in areas like in vestments,
career choices, and lif estyle decisions. While personal risk to lerance focuses on individual c omfort and go als,
business risk tolerance considers organizational objectives, resources, and stakeholder expectations. However,
both require balancing the potential for loss with the pursuit of rewards.
584 | 12.8: RISK TOLERANCE

[Page 617]
12.9: RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk management is the structure d process of identifying potential threats, ev aluating their likelihood and
impact, and dev eloping strategies to minimize or eliminate their adv erse eff ects. By integrating risk
management into their de cision-making processes, organizations c an not only saf eguard their assets but also
seize opportunities that arise from taking calculated risks.1
The five primary steps in risk management are as follows:2
1. Identify risks: Recognize potential risks that could negatively affect the business.
2. Analyze risks: Analyze and assess the likelihood and potential impact of each risk.
3. Evaluate and prioritize risks: Determine which risks require immediate attention and resources.
4. Implement risk controls: Develop and apply strategies to mitigate, transfer, accept, or avoid risks.
5. Monitor and review: Continuously track risks and the effectiveness of implemented controls.
Best business practices in risk management include:
• Involving all levels of the organization in risk management discussions.
• Maintaining documentation for accountability and future reference.
• Using a risk management framework like ISO 31000.
1. Peterson, O. (2019, August 9). The ultimate risk management guide: Everything you need to know. Process.St.
2. IMD. (2024, November). Risk management: Understanding the basics and importance.
12.9: RISK MANAGEMENT | 585

[Page 618]
Analyzing data to manage risks
Proactive risk management enab les organizations
to prote ct their operations, preserv e assets, and
navigate uncertainty with c onfidence. While there’s
no one-size-fits-all appro ach—different risks
demand diff erent tactics—some widely adopte d
strategies include: 3
• Forecasting, planning, and budgeting: Align
initiatives with corporate objectives, reserve
funds for innovation, and build in
contingency plans.
• Environmental scanning: Use tools like
SWOT, PEST, and Porter’s Five Forces to
evaluate industry dynamics and competitor
activity before decision-making.
• Insurance coverage: Purchase policies that
protect against injuries, theft, property
damage, fires, and other unforeseen losses.
• Safety protocols: Train employees, supply
personal protective equipment as needed, and
establish emergency response and evacuation
procedures to minimize accidents.
• Supplier and market diversification: Secure
multiple vendors across different regions and
cultivate varied customer segments to reduce dependency.
• Risk assessment frameworks: Conduct regular risk audits, identify emerging threats early, and implement
a structured risk-management process.
• Financial reserves: Maintain emergency funds, liquid investments, and strong cash flow to absorb
shocks.
• Intellectual property protection: Safeguard innovations via patents, trademarks, copyrights, and tradesecret policies.
• Regulatory compliance and ethics: Adhere to relevant laws—industry regulations, employment
standards, contract and tax laws—and uphold ethical business practices.
• Talent development: Communicate risk policies clearly, provide compliance training, and assemble teams
3. Businessnes. (2024, October 2). 20 examples of risk management & guide.
586 | 12.9: RISK MANAGEMENT

[Page 619]
with the right skills and mindset.
• Supply-chain transparency: Foster open communication and collaboration with suppliers and other
stakeholders to identify and address vulnerabilities.
• Crisis response and continuity planning: Prepare detailed crisis-management and business-continuity
plans to maintain operations during disruptions.
• Performance metrics: Track input, process, and output indicators to monitor risk-management
effectiveness.
• Technology integration: Leverage project management tools, ERP systems, data-security measures, and
analytics to boost efficiency and safeguard information.
• Risk-sharing partnerships: Collaborate with government entities, industry peers, customers, and
suppliers to distribute potential liabilities.
• Ongoing review and adaptation: Continuously evaluate your risk-management practices in light of new
market trends, technological advances, and regulatory changes.
By imp lementing these measures, organizations c an dramatic ally re duce their e xposure to threats, build
resilience, and position themselves for sustained success—even in the face of unpredictability.
Media Attributions
“A Man in White Long Sleeves Sitting at the Table” by Tima Miroshnichenko, used under the Pexels license.
12.9: RISK MANAGEMENT | 587

[Page 620]
12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS
DIFFERENT SECTORS
Risk manag ement helps organizations anticip ate and address potential threats and unc ertainties in man y
areas.
Project Management
Risk management is important in proje ct management, where unc ertainties and potential risks c an
significantly impact project success. By inc orporating risk management into proje ct planning and e xecution,
project managers c an identify potential obstacles, alloc ate resources effectively, and imp lement contingency
plans to minimize proje ct delays and cost overruns. Almost all business activities c an be classified as business
projects. For example, developing a new product, implementing a new process, upgrading to a new computer
system can all be c onsidered business proje cts. Most likely, you will be p art of one of these types of proje ct
teams in the future.
Creating a c omprehensive proje ct p lan is c rucial f or ensuring the smooth e xecution and suc cessful
completion of an y proje ct. A w ell-structured p lan serv es as a strategic guide, detailing the tasks, timelines,
required resources, and project objectives necessary to meet the desired outcomes. For example, consider a large
organization undertaking the implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system.
To manage potential project risks effectively, the organization could take several key actions:
• First, it would identify potential risks such as data migration challenges, gaps in employee training, and
potential system downtimes that could disrupt operations.
• Next, the organization would implement strategies to mitigate these risks, including conducting pilot
tests, selecting a vendor with a strong track record in similar projects, and ensuring thorough and
ongoing staff training before the full system rollout. Additionally, the organization would establish a
clear project scope and deliverables to avoid scope creep, ensure that all stakeholders are aligned on
expectations, and set realistic milestones.
• Third, the organization would implement strong change management practices to address any resistance
to new technology and processes, providing employees with clear communication and support
throughout the transition. Furthermore, it would allocate a contingency budget to cover any unforeseen
issues that may arise during the project.
• Finally, the organization would closely monitor progress through regular project team meetings,
588 | 12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS DIFFERENT SECTORS

[Page 621]
maintain open communication about project goals and timelines, and establish feedback loops to
address emerging issues proactively, ensuring that the project stays on track and any risks are promptly
managed.
Project management tools can help reduce risks. Tools like Trello, Asana, Monday.com and Microsoft Project
help organize tasks, track progress, and manage resourc es. Gantt charts and PER T charts are visual timelines
that show project progress against deadlines. While both visualize timelines, Gantt charts are more e xplicit
about spe cific dates, whereas PER T charts emp hasize task relationships and se quences without ne cessarily
focusing on calendar-specific details. Many project managers use both tools together for comprehensive project
planning and execution. RiskWatch is a risk management software used by many project managers to track and
analyze risks.
Information Technology
Information te chnology (IT) is another se ctor where risk management is of utmost importanc e. W ith the
increasing reliance on digital s ystems and the rise of c yberthreats, organizations must imp lement robust risk
management practic es to prote ct sensitiv e data, maintain s ystem integrity , and ensure business
continuity. Cybersecurity risks, such as data breaches and malw are attacks, c an ha ve sev ere c onsequences,
including financial losses and reputational damage.
Information risk manag ement is defined as the po licies, proc edures, and te chnology an organization
adopts to reduce the threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences that could arise if data is not protected.1
To continuously manage information risk, a business should do the following:2
• Monitor security performance. Software can help a business monitor for emerging vulnerabilities, such as
identifying and alerting the business to misconfigured software, unpatched systems, open ports, and
anomalies in user behaviour. It also ranks areas of disproportionate risk, allowing security teams to
prioritize where to allocate resources.
• Measure security effectiveness. Software can provide data-driven views of how effective the business’s
information security efforts are and help maintain alignment with compliance requirements. Findings
are presented as a numerical score, making it easy to convey security risks and the organization’s cyber
readiness in terms that all stakeholders can understand.
• Manage third-party risks. Third-party vendors and partners are an integral part of modern business
1. Holmes, R. (2024, June 4). What is information risk management? Bitsight.
2. Holmes, R. (2024, June 4). What is information risk management? Bitsight.
12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS DIFFERENT SECTORS | 589

[Page 622]
operations, but they also introduce significant risks. Mitigate supply chain risk by measuring, verifying,
and continuously monitoring vendors’ security measures — without relying on manual, subjective,
point-in-time assessments. If a vendor’s security performance drops below a pre-agreed risk threshold,
the business will receive automatic alerts and insights that can be shared with your vendors, making
third-party risk management a more collaborative process.
Finance
In the financial se ctor, risk management is c rucial f or b anks, insuranc e c ompanies, and in vestment firms.
These institutions face a wide range of risks, including c redit risk, market risk, operational risk, and liquidity
risk. Effective risk management practic es in the financial industry help ensure stability and prev ent financial
crises. Canadian financial institutions face an increasingly complex regulatory web as regulators in Canada and
globally impose greater pressures to assess, monitor and mitigate regulatory and operational risks. Also, today’s
financial institutions need to keep up with new regulations, deal with new issues, including those c reated by
remote work and emerging technologies, and manage the human resources and technological requirements to
get the job done. The speed of change is rapid, and the demands are increasing.3
Risk management in the financial w orld is the proc ess of identific ation, analysis, and ac ceptance or
mitigation of unc ertainty in in vestment decisions. Essentially, risk management oc curs when an in vestor or
fund manager analyzes and attempts to quantify the potential for losses in an investment.
A few of the alternatives financial institutions might choose to mitigate the risk include:
• Credit risk. Establish strict loan approval criteria and conduct creditworthiness evaluations.
• Market risk. Hedge against fluctuations using derivatives and portfolio diversification.
• Operational risk. Implement strong internal controls and compliance programs.
JPMorgan Chase uses adv anced data analytics and stress-testing models to manage its c redit and market risk
exposures. It also employs a robust cybersecurity framework to protect against data breaches, integrating these
efforts into its broader enterprise risk management strategy.4
The financial industry’s relianc e on te chnology, glob al markets, and c omplex financial instruments
underscores the importance of a proactive and comprehensive approach to risk management.
3. Daddey, F., & Newton, R. (2022). Fundamentals of business. Douglas College.
4. JPMorgan Chase & Co. (2024). 2024 annual Dodd-Frank Act stress test results disclosure.
590 | 12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS DIFFERENT SECTORS

[Page 623]
Risk management is essential in the healthcare
industry.
Health Care
The healthc are industry relies hea vily on risk
management to ensure p atient safety and quality of
care. Health c are organizations f ace risks relate d to
medical errors, p atient priv acy breaches, and
regulatory compliance. By implementing robust risk
management strategies, pro viders c an identify and
mitigate potential risks, leading to impro ved patient
outcomes and reduced legal liabilities.
Risks in health c are include me dication errors,
patient saf ety incidents (e.g., f alls, inf ections), data
breaches in volving p atient re cords, and legal risks
from malpractic e claims. Strategies to re duce risks
might include staff training, installing ele ctronic
health records with safety checks, and ensuring compliance with infection control protocols.
Some challenges e xperienced in the health c are se ctor include b alancing p atient c are with c ost c ontrol,
integrating new te chnologies without c ompromising se curity, and na vigating ev olving regulations and
industry standards.
Risk management in healthc are requires a pro active and multidiscip linary approach, involving clinicians,
administrators, and compliance experts to create a safe and efficient care environment.
Supply Chain Management
Supply chain management is y et another area where eff ective risk management is c ritical. Supp ly chains
are vulnerab le to v arious risks, such as disruptions in logistics, supp lier f ailures, and natural disasters. By
implementing risk management strategies, organizations c an identify potential vulnerabilities, estab lish
alternative supply sources, and develop contingency plans to minimize the impact of supply chain disruptions.
Here are a few examples of supply chain risks:
• Natural disasters: Earthquakes, hurricanes, or floods can damage infrastructure or halt production. In
April 2024, a violent earthquake in Taiwan severely impacted semiconductor production, triggering
widespread disruptions across global supply chains—particularly in the automotive and electronics
industries—due to Taiwan’s key role in chip manufacturing.
• Global pandemics: The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the supply chain globally as it caused
widespread factory shutdowns. The directly impacted industries were electronics, automotive, and
consumer goods. COVID-19 revealed numerous vulnerabilities in supply chains, from reliance on
12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS DIFFERENT SECTORS | 591

[Page 624]
single-source suppliers to inadequate risk management practices for global disruptions. Many companies
have since adapted by diversifying suppliers, investing in digital technologies for better supply chain
visibility, and rethinking inventory strategies.
• Geopolitical risks: Trade wars, tariffs, and sanctions, like the U.S.-China trade war, can disrupt
international supply chains, leading to delays, cost increases, and changes in supplier strategies.
• Cybersecurity risks: Cybersecurity breaches can disrupt the supply chain by paralyzing critical systems,
halting production and logistics, and preventing the flow of goods and services across interconnected
networks. The June 2025 cyberattack on United Natural Foods Inc. (UNFI), the primary distributor for
Whole Foods Market forced UNFI to shut down its systems, halting deliveries to over 30,000 grocery
stores across North America. This led to empty shelves, frozen supply chains, and manual workarounds,
highlighting how a single cyberattack can paralyze a critical segment of the food supply chain.5
Technological tools in supp ly chain relationship management help monitor and re duce risks. Some of these
tools include:
• Supply chain mapping tools like RiskMethods and Resilience360 help companies map their entire
supply chain to visualize risks.
• Predictive analytics software like Llamasoft and SAP Integrated Business Planning use AI and machine
learning to forecast risks and optimize supply chain operations.
• Blockchain technology used by companies like IBM and Maersk improve transparency and reduce fraud
risks in supply chains.
Supply chain risk management is a c ritical component of modern business operations, enabling companies to
proactively handle disruptions, reduce costs, and improve their resilience. By using a combination of strategic
planning, risk assessment, and technological solutions, companies can minimize vulnerabilities and maintain a
competitive edge even in times of uncertainty.
Media Attributions
“Operation, Operating room, Surgery image” by sasint, used under the Pixabay license.
5. Sayegh, E. (2025, June 19). Cyberattack on Whole Foods supplier disrupts supply chain again. Forbes.
592 | 12.10: RISK MANAGEMENT ACROSS DIFFERENT SECTORS

[Page 625]
12.11: RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY
Risk response p lanning ensures risks are manage d pro actively, helping businesses achiev e their obje ctives
while minimizing potential disruptions. When analyzing risks and determining appropriate risk r esponse
strategies, business leaders must consider the following: 1
• Risk significance and urgency: High-impact risks often require avoidance or mitigation.
• Cost-benefit analysis: The cost of mitigating or transferring the risk must be balanced against the
potential impact.
• Organizational goals: Align the response with strategic priorities and resources.
• Risk appetite: An organization’s willingness to tolerate certain risks plays a significant role in determining
the response.
Risk Response Strategies
Risk response strategies include:2
Risk Avoidance
◦ Definition: Eliminating the risk entirely by choosing not to engage in the activity or decision that
creates the risk.
◦ Example: A company decides not to launch a product in a highly unstable market to avoid financial
losses.
◦ When to use: For high-probability, high-impact risks that cannot be mitigated to acceptable levels.
Risk Mitigation (Reduction)
◦ Definition: Reducing the likelihood or impact of a risk to acceptable levels through preventive
measures.
1. FasterCapital. (2025, April 6). Business risk response: How to plan and execute risk management actions.
2. AlertMedia. (2024, December 18). Emergency management: 7 business risk response strategies [+Mitigation plan].
12.11: RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY | 593

[Page 626]
◦ Example: Implementing stronger cybersecurity protocols to reduce the likelihood of data breaches.
◦ When to use: For risks that are manageable with controls and investments.
Risk Transfer (Sharing)
◦ Definition: Shifting the risk to a third party, such as through insurance, outsourcing, or contracts.
◦ Example: Purchasing insurance for liability protection or hiring a third-party logistics provider to
manage shipping risks.
◦ When to use: For risks that are costly to manage internally or are outside the organization’s
expertise.
Risk Acceptance (Retention)
◦ Definition: Acknowledging the risk and choosing to accept its potential impact without taking
specific preventive measures.
◦ Example: A startup accepts the risk of initial financial losses while developing its product.
◦ When to use: For low-impact, low-probability risks or when the cost of mitigation exceeds the
potential loss.
Risk Exploitation (for Opportunities)
◦ Definition: Taking actions to ensure a positive risk (opportunity) is fully realized.
◦ Example: Expanding into a new market based on favourable conditions or trends.
◦ When to use: For risks that present clear potential benefits if managed correctly.
Risk Enhancement (Opportunity-Related)
◦ Definition: Increasing the likelihood or impact of a positive risk.
◦ Example: Strengthening relationships with a key supplier to secure better terms or reliability.
◦ When to use: When opportunities can be leveraged with added effort or resources.
594 | 12.11: RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY

[Page 627]
Cellular Central — Managing Theft Risk
Cellular Central, a popular cell phone store located in a busy urban area, has identified theft as a
significant risk. To address this, the management considers the following risk response strategies:
• Avoidance: The store could choose to close its physical location and shift entirely to an
online retail model, eliminating the risk of in-store theft.
• Mitigation: Management may implement preventative measures such as staff training to
recognize suspicious behaviour, installing security cameras, locking high-value items in
display cases, and optimizing the store layout to reduce blind spots and opportunities for
theft.
• Transfer: The company could purchase commercial insurance that specifically covers losses
due to theft, shifting the financial burden to an insurer.
• Acceptance: Cellular Central may decide to accept the risk and set aside a designated
budget to cover any potential losses, viewing theft as an operational cost of doing business.
Which risk response strategy would you recommend to the owner of Cellular Central? What things
did you consider before making this recommendation?
12.11: RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY | 595

[Page 628]
12.12: AI IN BUSINESS: ENHANCING
INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Artificial Intelligence (A I) refers to the simulation of human intelligenc e in machines, enab ling them to
perform tasks that typically require human cognitive abilities. These tasks include learning from data (machine
learning), prob lem-solving, de cision-making, natural language understanding, and p attern re cognition. AI
systems use algorithms, statistical models, and computational power to process vast amounts of information,
identify patterns, and make predictions or recommendations.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is rev olutionizing the w ay businesses manage inf ormation and mitigate risks.
With the inc reasing c omplexity of glob al markets, regulatory re quirements, and c ybersecurity threats, AIpowered s ystems pro vide businesses with the ability to proc ess v ast amounts of data in real time, identify
risks bef ore they esc alate, and support inf ormed de cision-making. AI enhanc es inf ormation management
by automating data c ollection, organizing unstructure d data, and pro viding predictive insights that impro ve
business operations. From financial institutions monitoring fraud to supp ly chain managers pre dicting
disruptions, AI is becoming an integral tool in modern business environments.
One of the most signific ant w ays AI is transf orming inf ormation management is through automate d
data proc essing and analysis. T raditional methods of handling business inf ormation in volve manual entry ,
classification, and retriev al, which are time-c onsuming and prone to human error. AI, p articularly through
machine learning and natural language proc essing (NLP) , c an automatic ally e xtract insights from emails,
reports, social media, and customer feedback, helping organizations make f aster and more accurate decisions.
AI-powered analytics platforms can detect patterns in large datasets, enab ling businesses to anticipate market
trends, customer preferences, and operational inefficiencies.
In the realm of risk management, AI p lays a c rucial ro le in identifying and mitigating potential threats.
Cybersecurity is one area where AI is p articularly v aluable, as businesses f ace inc reasing threats from
cyberattacks, data breaches, and ransomware. AI-driv en c ybersecurity so lutions c ontinuously monitor
networks for anomalies, flag suspicious activities, and respond to threats in real time, reducing the risk of costly
security breaches. Similarly, AI is transforming fraud detection by analyzing transactional data and identifying
unusual beha viours that ma y indic ate fraudulent activities, helping financial institutions and e-c ommerce
platforms minimize financial losses.
596 | 12.12: AI IN BUSINESS: ENHANCING INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT

[Page 629]
The use of AI in automated milking systems
(AMS) has revolutionized dairy farming by
improving efficiency, milk quality, and herd
health. Traditional milking, which requires
manual labour, is being replaced by robotic
milking machines that integrate AI, sensors, and
data analytics to streamline the milking process
while ensuring optimal animal welfare.
AI also supports regulatory compliance by automating
monitoring and reporting proc esses. Businesses in highly
regulated industries, such as financ e, healthc are, and
agriculture, must c omply with strict legal and saf ety
standards. AI c an track c ompliance re quirements, alert
businesses to potential vio lations, and generate reports
that ensure regulatory adherenc e. This not only re duces
legal risks but also impro ves o verall transp arency and
governance.
Beyond mitigating e xternal risks, AI helps businesses
manage operational and financial risks b y impro ving
forecasting and de cision-making. In supp ly chain
management, AI-po wered pre dictive analytics c an
anticipate potential disruptions—such as dela ys, supplier
shortages, or ge opolitical risks—allo wing businesses to
take proactive measures. In finance, AI algorithms analyze
economic indic ators, market fluctuations, and c ompany perf ormance data to assess risks associate d with
investments, lending, and pricing strategies. These AI-driv en insights allo w businesses to make data-b acked
decisions that minimize uncertainty and enhance long-term sustainability.
Despite its adv antages, AI-driven information and risk management c ome with challenges. Data priv acy
and security concerns are at the f orefront, as AI s ystems require access to large datasets, including sensitiv e
customer and business inf ormation. Comp anies must ensure that their AI s ystems c omply with data
protection regulations, such as the General Data Prote ction Regulation (GDPR) and Canada ’s P ersonal
Information Prote ction and Ele ctronic Documents Act (PIPED A). Additionally , AI biases remain a
significant concern, as biased algorithms can lead to unfair or discriminatory outcomes in hiring, lending, and
risk assessment. Organizations must invest in explainable AI (XAI) to improve transparency and accountability
in AI-driven decision-making.
Looking ahead, AI will c ontinue to p lay a piv otal ro le in business inf ormation and risk management,
with advancements in AI-po wered risk intelligenc e platforms, real-time monitoring s ystems, and automate d
decision-support too ls. As businesses na vigate an inc reasingly digital and data-driv en world, integrating AI
responsibly will be essential f or enhancing efficiency, mitigating risks, and maintaining a c ompetitive edge in
the market.
12.12: AI IN BUSINESS: ENHANCING INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT | 597

[Page 630]
Emerging Trends in Risk Management
In the dynamic landscape of business and technology, the importance of effective risk
management cannot be overstated. The ever-evolving global environment brings forth new
challenges and opportunities that demand a proactive and adaptive approach to risk.1
Here are six of the key risk management trends shaping the corporate landscape (in 2024):
• Digital transformation and cybersecurity. Developing a robust IT infrastructure and
fostering a culture of cyber-awareness among employees. Continuous monitoring, threat
intelligence, and advanced analytics are becoming essential components of a
comprehensive cybersecurity risk strategy.
• Supply chain resilience. Building resilience by diversifying suppliers, embracing digital
technologies like blockchain for transparent and traceable supply chains, and
implementing contingency plans for unforeseen events.
• Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risks. Assessing and mitigating risks
related to climate change, social justice issues, and ethical business practices. Companies
are realizing that effective ESG risk management not only aligns with societal
expectations but also enhances long-term sustainability and reputation.
• Data privacy and compliance. Investing in robust data governance frameworks
ensures that they not only comply with regulations but also uphold customer trust.
Innovations in data anonymization and encryption technologies are gaining prominence
in navigating the complex landscape of data privacy risks.
• Remote work and challenges. Managing remote teams, ensuring data security in
dispersed environments, and addressing the mental health and well-being of employees.
Risk management strategies now encompass policies and technologies that secure
remote workspaces while fostering a supportive and inclusive organizational culture.
• Regulatory changes and geopolitical risks. Scenario planning for potential regulatory
shifts, tariff impacts, and geopolitical tensions that may affect supply chains and market
dynamics. The ability to navigate regulatory complexities has become a key differentiator
for businesses operating on a global scale.
1. Aragon Research. (2024, January 5). 6 emerging risk management trends in 2024.
598 | 12.12: AI IN BUSINESS: ENHANCING INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT

[Page 631]
Media Attributions
“A row of green and blue hoses on a farm” by Giulia Botan, used under the Pexels license.
12.12: AI IN BUSINESS: ENHANCING INFORMATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT | 599

[Page 632]
12.13: RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS
There are a number of risk management standards designe d to c onsolidate best practic e principles and help
to streamline and impro ve risk management imp lementations f or businesses. Another f actor driving the
standardization of risk management framew orks has been the increased scrutiny that organizations must f ace
with regard to their risk management s ystems. Risk management s ystems are often re quired to stand up to
rigorous internal audits and assessments in order to pro ve that they are effective in their imp lementation and
that they are in line with company goals and objectives.
The f amily of risk management standards define d b y ISO 31000 is one such e xample of a leading
international standardization of a risk management approach.1
ISO ref ers to the International Organization f or Standardization; the 31000 portion ref ers to a f amily
of standards f or risk management. As w ell as being an umbrella term f or a bunch of diff erent standards,
ISO 31000 also ref ers to a singular standard, spe cifically known as ISO 31000:2018. This standard defines
a set of guidelines f or managing risk, designe d to be use d by organizations of an y size, w orking in an y area,
to imp lement effective risk management s ystems. Unlike man y other ISO standards, like 9001 f or quality
management or 14001 f or en vironmental management, ISO 31000 is a set of guidelines. That means y ou
can’t get an ISO 31000 certification in the same way you could for other standards with specific requirements.
Nonetheless, ISO 31000 is a leading framew ork for organizations seeking to identify, assess, and manage risk
with the intention of improving decision-making, governance, and performance.2
There are sev eral standards organizations and c ommittees that ha ve dev eloped risk management
frameworks, guidance, and approaches that business teams can leverage and adapt for their own company.3
Some of the more popular risk management frameworks include:
• ISO 31000 Family: The International Standards Organization’s guidance on risk management is broad
and adaptable to various sectors and industries.
• NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF): The National Institute of Standards and Technology has
released risk management guidance compatible with their Cybersecurity Framework (CSF).
• COSO Enterprise Risk Management (ERM): The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations’ enterprise
1. Peterson, O. (2019, August 9). The ultimate risk management guide: Everything you need to know. Process.St.
2. ISO. (2018). ISO 31000:2018 – Risk management — Guidelines, Edition 2.
3. Villanueva, E. (2023, August 16). Risk management 1010: Process, examples, strategies. AuditBoard.
600 | 12.13: RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS

[Page 633]
risk management guidance. COSO ERM is highly strategic and focuses on aligning risk with
organizational objectives.
• PMBOK and RIMS are more suited for project and insurance-related risks, respectively.
• FERMA and BS 31100 are more region-specific but still provide valuable guidelines for broader risk
management practices.
• The AIRMIC/IRM/ALARM Risk Management Standard is widely used in the UK to manage risks.
Each of these frameworks provides valuable insights and methods for organizations to manage risks effectively,
but the choice of framework depends on the organization’s industry, structure, and specific risk management
needs.

CAREER SPOTLIGHT
Katarina Borg
Katarina Borg
Katarina is a Senior Financial Lines Underwriter with e xtensive e xperience in underwriting dire ctors’ and
officers’ liability, employment practices liability, fiduciary liability, and crime insurance.
Katarina’s job requires proficiency in analyzing financial statements to assess company stability and evaluate
risk profiles, ensuring that underwriting de cisions align with guidelines and standards. She manages a div erse
portfolio of businesses, lev eraging strong relationship management skills to build trust, negotiate eff ectively,
and se cure c ommitments with high-profile clients. She c ollaborates closely with the claims team to assess
coverage, address claims, and navigate resolution processes. She often provides guidance to other underwriters,
assisting with c omplex cases and ensuring that underwriting de cisions align with best practic es. She striv es
for excellence in risk assessment, client relationships, and underwriting strategy in the ev olving financial lines
insurance landscape.
“Effective risk management isn’t about avoiding risk; it’s about understanding, anticipating, and strategically
navigating it to create challenges into opportunities.”
12.13: RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS | 601

[Page 634]
Attribution: Photograp h and te xt © Katarina Borg. Use d under a Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives License.
602 | 12.13: RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS

[Page 635]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Business information refers to collective data related to a company and its operations,
including statistical information, raw analytical data, customer feedback, and sales numbers.
2. Big data refers to datasets that are so large and complex that traditional data-processing
methods cannot handle them. The defining characteristics of big data are volume, velocity,
variety, veracity, and value (the 5Vs).
3. Data mining involves extracting valuable patterns and relationships from large datasets.
Businesses use techniques like clustering, classification, and predictive modelling to derive
actionable insights.
4. Data security is paramount to protect sensitive information from breaches, unauthorized
access, and cyberattacks.
5. Effective information sharing enhances collaboration and decision-making within and
between organizations.
6. Visualization converts data into graphical representations, making complex datasets easier
to understand and interpret. Popular tools include Tableau, Power BI, and Google Charts.
7. Information management encompasses the collection, storage, organization, and
distribution of information to optimize business operations and decision-making.
8. There are a number of risk management standards designed to consolidate best practice
principles and streamline and improve risk management implementations for businesses. For
example, ISO refers to the International Organization for Standardization; the 31000 part
refers to a family of standards for risk management. As well as being an umbrella term for
many different standards, ISO 31000 also refers to a singular standard, specifically known as
ISO 31000:2018.
9. Business risk refers to the potential for a company to experience financial losses or other
challenges that could impact its ability to achieve its objectives. These risks arise from
uncertainties in the internal and external environment in which the business operates.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 603

[Page 636]
10. Risk management is the structured process of identifying potential threats, evaluating their
likelihood and impact, and developing strategies to minimize or eliminate their adverse
effects.
11. Real risks are backed by data, evidence, or historical trends. They are measurable and often
require proactive mitigation.
12. Perceived risks are based on feelings, fears, or assumptions and may lack concrete
evidence. They often result from misinformation, cognitive biases, or heightened awareness.
13. Risk tolerance in a business context refers to the degree of uncertainty and potential loss
an organization is willing to accept to achieve its objectives. It reflects the company’s capacity
and willingness to take on risks as part of its strategy and decision-making processes.
14. Personal risk tolerance refers to an individual’s ability or willingness to accept uncertainty
and potential loss in pursuit of a goal. It plays a critical role in decision-making, particularly in
areas like investments, career choices, and lifestyle decisions.
15. In the financial sector, risk management is crucial for banks, insurance companies, and
investment firms. These institutions face a wide range of risks, including credit risk, market
risk, operational risk, and liquidity risk. Effective risk management practices in the financial
industry help ensure stability and prevent financial crises.
16. The healthcare industry relies heavily on risk management to ensure patient safety and
quality of care. Health care organizations face risks related to medical errors, patient privacy
breaches, and regulatory compliance. By implementing robust risk management strategies,
providers can identify and mitigate potential risks, leading to improved patient outcomes and
reduced legal liabilities.
17. Project risk management involves dealing with uncertainties and potential risks that can
significantly impact project success. By incorporating risk management into project planning
and execution, project managers can identify potential obstacles, allocate resources
effectively, and implement contingency plans to minimize project delays and cost overruns.
18. Information risk management is defined as the policies, procedures, and technology an
organization adopts to reduce the threats, vulnerabilities, and consequences that could arise
if data is not protected.
19. Supply chain management is yet another area where effective risk management is critical.
Supply chains are vulnerable to various risks, such as disruptions in logistics, supplier failures,
and natural disasters. By implementing risk management strategies, organizations can
identify potential vulnerabilities, establish alternative supply sources, and develop
contingency plans to minimize the impact of supply chain disruptions.
20. Risk response strategy. The choice of risk response for organizations depends on the
604 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 637]
severity of the risk, cost-benefit analysis, organizational goals, and risk appetite. Risk
response strategies include: avoidance, mitigation, transfer, acceptance, exploitation, and
enhancement.
21. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is revolutionizing the way businesses manage information and
mitigate risks. AI-powered systems provide businesses with the ability to process vast
amounts of data in real time, identify risks before they escalate, and support informed
decision-making. AI enhances information management by automating data collection,
organizing unstructured data, and providing predictive insights that improve business
operations. From financial institutions monitoring fraud to supply chain managers predicting
disruptions, AI is becoming an integral tool in modern business environments.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 12: Information and Risk Management [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises
1. Big Data in Google Trends. Visit the Google Trends website and explore what Canada is
searching for right now. Assume you are a business that sells a product, such as HarleyDavidson motorbikes, M&M’s Candy, or Nike shoes. Use Google Trends to learn about the
brand’s popularity. Are people searching for that company’s brand? Which brands are most
popular? Discuss with the class and/or professor how Google Trends might be useful to a
business.
2. Power BI Visualization. Download Power BI online for free. Review a simple “Getting
Started” with Power BI tutorial. Try making a simple visualization. You may notice that the
charts look similar to those in Excel. This is one of the tools businesses use to make
CHAPTER REVIEW | 605

[Page 638]
visualizations. How did you do? Share your learning with the class and/or professor.
3. Data Analytics. Use the Internet to research data analytics. What is it? How do companies
use it? What kind of jobs are there in data analytics? Is this a field that is expanding? What is
the Google Data Analytics Certification about? Share your findings with the class and/or
professor.
4. Tableau for Students. Visit the Tableau for Students website. Review the resources for
learning. What resources are available to students? Do you think it would be helpful to gain
certification? What can you learn for free? Take a short course or module (your professor
may assign a specific module) and share your experience with the class and/or professor.
5. IT Monitoring. How does electronic monitoring impact your life as a student? Should the IT
department at your college or university be monitoring emails and files? How might the
goals of the institution come into conflict with the needs of the students on this issue? What
if a student were to send a threatening email? Should IT notify authorities? Who should
judge what is deemed threatening?
6. Managers’ Information Needs. Think of Walmart. Consider these three levels of
management: 1) the manager in the store who is in charge of day-to-day operations, 2) the
district manager who is in charge of several stores, and 3) the National or Regional Manager
who manages several districts within a region or country. Identify the information needs of
the managers at each of these levels. Discuss with a partner, the class and/or professor.
7. Data Security. What are some of the ways companies try to protect their data against
hackers? What is a firewall? What is encryption? What can you do to protect yourself from
being hacked or defrauded? Discuss with the class and/or the professor.
8. ERP. Use the Internet to find a company that uses an ERP system to manage data. Does the
company have multiple locations that are networked together to share data? What can you
discover about the data the company stores, the security used to keep the data safe, and the
information that is pulled from that data to support business operations and decisions?
Share your findings with the class and/or professor.
9. Personal Risk. Identify three personal risks you have taken over the past three years. What
happened? How did you mitigate those risks? Did you change your behaviour or thinking
afterward? Discuss with a partner, the class and/or the professor.
10. Personal Risk Tolerance. Do you have a high or low risk tolerance? What have you done
that demonstrates your risk tolerance? Provide three examples. Do you think your risk
tolerance might change over time? Why or why not? Discuss with a partner, the class and/or
the professor.
11. Financial Risk Tolerance Quiz. Take one of these free risk tolerance quizzes to determine
606 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 639]
your investment risk tolerance level. Rutgers Paper-based Quiz or Finmasters Online Quiz.
12. Risk Response Strategy. Select an extreme sport, for example, rock climbing, zip lining, or
white-water rafting (or other). What would your risk response strategy be? You and/or your
friend sign up with a company that offers these sporting excursions. Make a list of the things
you and/or your friend could do to mitigate the risks. Make another list of the things the
company could do to mitigate the risks for its customers. Share your lists with a partner, the
class and/or professor.
13. Risk Failure. Use the Internet to find information on a company that took a risk, and it
failed. What happened? What risk response strategy did the company take, if any? Why do
you think it failed? Summarize your findings and share them with the class and/or professor.
14. Risk Success. Use the Internet to find information on a company that took a risk and was
successful in a big way. What happened? What risk response strategy did the company take,
if any? Why was it so successful? Summarize your findings and share them with the class
and/or professor.
15. Remote Work. Does working remotely increase employee productivity? What are the pros
and cons for employers of allowing employees to work from home? What are the pros and
cons of working from home for employees? Would you like a job where you work from
home? Why or why not? What types of people might like to work from home? Discuss with
the class and/or professor.

Self-Check Exercise: Risk Management Quiz
Check your understanding of risk management concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
CHAPTER REVIEW | 607

[Page 640]
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=443#h5p-28
Additional Resources
• What are the 4 Concepts of Business Intelligence? YouTube Video.
• The Intersection of Business and Technology: An Interview with Mike Jackowski, CEO, Duck
Creek. YouTube Video.
• Report a Privacy Breach at Your Organization.
• Get Started with Google Analytics. YouTube Video.
• Risk Management, Judgment, and Decision-Making for Outdoor Leaders. OER
• Risk Management, Supply Chain and Operations Perspective. OER
• What is Information Risk Management?
• The 7 Best Free and Open Risk Management Software
• Innovation QuickWin: Innovation Metrics. YouTube Video.
• Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate
• Google Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere. Course.
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
608 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 641]
CHAPTER 13: MANAGING
PERSONAL FINANCES
CHAPTER 13: MANAGING PERSONAL FINANCES | 609

[Page 642]
610 | CHAPTER 13: MANAGING PERSONAL FINANCES

[Page 643]
CHAPTER PREVIEW
Managing your money well is important for a secure future. This chapter will help you understand how to plan
your finances, handle debt, budget y our income, invest wisely, use b anking services, and build a good c redit
score.
Learning Objectives
After reading this chapter, you should be able to do the following:
1. Define financial planning with reference to the financial planning life cycle.
2. Describe strategies to manage and minimize personal debt.
3. Explain how to manage monthly income and expenses.
4. Clarify the concepts of compound interest and the time value of money and their impact on
long-term financial planning.
5. Differentiate between major banks and credit unions in terms of structure, services, and
profitability.
6. Explore how you can build a credit history that will give you a high credit score.
CHAPTER PREVIEW | 611

[Page 644]
13.1: FINANCIAL PLANNING
Before we go an y further, y ou need to understand a c ouple of key c oncepts. First, what e xactly is meant b y
personal finances? Finance itself c oncerns the flo w of money from one p lace to another, and y our personal
finances c oncern y our money and what y ou p lan to do with it as it flo ws in and out of y our possession.
Essentially, then, personal finance is the application of financial principles to the monetary decisions that you
make either for your individual benefit or for that of your family.
Second, as suggeste d earlier, monetary de cisions work out much more beneficially when they’re p lanned
rather than improvised. Thus, our emphasis on financial planning—the ongoing process of managing your
personal finances in order to meet goals that you’ve set for yourself or your family.
Financial planning requires you to address several questions, some of them relatively simple:
• What’s my annual income?
• How much debt do I have, and what are my monthly payments on that debt?
Others will require some investigation and calculation:
• What’s the value of my assets?
• How can I best budget my annual income?
Still others will require some forethought and forecasting:
• How much wealth can I expect to accumulate during my working lifetime?
• How much money will I need when I retire?
Financial Planning Life Cycle
Another question that y ou might ask y ourself—and certainly would do if y ou worked with a prof essional in
financial planning—is, “How will my financial plans change over the course of my life?” Figure 13.1 illustrates
the financial planning life cycle of a typic al individual, one whose financial outloo k and likely outc omes are
612 | 13.1: FINANCIAL PLANNING

[Page 645]
probably a lot like y ours.1
As you can see, the diagram divides this individual ’s life into thre e stages, each of
which is characterized by different life events (such as beginning a f amily, buying a home, p lanning an estate,
and retiring).
At each stage, there are recommended changes in the focus of the individual’s financial planning:
• Stage 1 focuses on building wealth.
• Stage 2 shifts the focus to the process of preserving and increasing wealth that one has accumulated and
continues to accumulate.
• Stage 3 turns the focus to the process of living on (and, if possible, continuing to grow) one’s saved
wealth after retirement.
Figure 13.1: The financial life cycle. [See image description.]
At each stage, of course, complications can set in—changes in such conditions as marital or employment status
1. Gallager, T. J., & Andrews, J. D. Jr., (2003). Financial management: Principles and practice, 3rd ed. Prentice Hall. pp. 34, 196.
13.1: FINANCIAL PLANNING | 613

[Page 646]
or in the overall economic outlook, for example. Finally, as you can also see, your financial needs will probably
peak somewhere in stage 2, at approximately age 55, or 10 years before the typical retirement age.
Until you’re on y our own and w orking, you’re probably living on y our parents’ wealth right no w. In our
hypothetical life cycle, financial p lanning begins in the individual ’s early tw enties. If that se ems like rushing
things, consider a basic fact of life: this is the age at which y ou’ll be choosing your career, not only the sort of
work you want to do during your prime income-generating years, but also the kind of lifestyle you want to live.
Media Attributions
“Figure 13.1: The Financial Lif e Cycle” is reuse d from The Financial Lif e Cycle,
licensed CC BY 4.0.
Image descriptions
Figure 13.1
A graphical representation of the financial life cycle. The x-axis shows age from 20 to 80 in ten-year increments.
The graph is split into three stages. Stage 1 extends from 20 to 50. Stage 2 extends from 50 to 70. Stage 3 extends
from 70 to 80. A large right-sided arrow lies at the top of the graph, labelled “Life Events.” Five events lie on the
life events arrow, representing events at different ages. Age and events from left to right: Age 20, Young Adult;
Age 25, F amily Formation; Age 35, F amily Development; Age 50, F amily Maturity; Age 75, Retirement. A
curved line representing income begins at the origin of the graph, steadily increases and peaks around 60 years
old, then steadily de creases at the same rate. Fiv e straight orange lines representing “Financial Priorities ” lie
under the income line vertically, beginning and ending at diff erent ages. Age ranges and priorities liste d from
bottom to top are: Age 20 to 70, Consumption and sa vings; Age 20 to 60, Debt; Age 30 to 75, Insuranc e
planning; Age 35 to 75, Investment; Age 50 to 80, Estate and tax planning.
[back to figure]
614 | 13.1: FINANCIAL PLANNING

[Page 647]
13.2: MANAGE PERSONAL DEBT
Your “personal debt” is how much money you owe to other people, businesses, banks, credit card companies,
and other creditors. Do you sometimes wonder where your money goes? Do you worry about how you’ll pay
off your student loans? Would you like to buy a new c ar or even a home some day, and you’re not sure where
you’ll get the money? If these questions se em familiar to you, you could benefit from help in managing y our
personal finances.
Let’s say that y ou’re 28 and single. Y ou have a good e ducation and a good job—y ou’re making an annual
salary of $60,000 working with a local accounting firm. You have $6,000 in a retirement sa vings account, and
you carry three credit cards. You plan to buy a c ondo in two or three years, and you want to take your dream
trip to the w orld’s hottest surfing spots within fiv e years. Your only big w orry is the f act that you’re $70,000
in debt, due to student lo ans, your car loan, and credit card debt. In f act, even though you’ve been gainfully
employed for a total of six years now, you haven’t been able to make a dent in that $70,000. You can afford the
necessities of life and then some, but you’ve occasionally wondered if you’re ever going to have enough income
to put something toward that debt.1
Student Loans for College and University Studies
With increased demand for college education, students are willing to take on debt f or potential benefits, such
as better earning potential and more job opportunities.
Here are a few statistics (2022–2023) about Canadian student loans:2
• The average student loan debt in Canada is approximately $28,000.
• The total amount of student loan debt in Canada is more than $23.5 billion.
• Women make up the majority of Canada’s student loan debt borrowers.
• 20-to-24-year-olds hold the most student loan debt.
• Ontario holds the most student loan debt, followed by Alberta and British Columbia.
• Nova Scotia has the highest tuition costs.
1. Gerson, E. & Simon, J. (2016). 10 ways students can build good credit. CreditCards.com. Retrieved from http://www.creditcards.com/credit-cardnews/help/10-ways-students-get-good-credit-6000.php
2. Lau, M. (2024, February 5). What’s the average student loan debt in Canada? 19 staggering statistics. Robertson College.
13.2: MANAGE PERSONAL DEBT | 615

[Page 648]
How Long Does It Take to Pay Off $50,000 in Student
Loans?
Your potential savings from refinancing will vary based on your loan terms. For example, say you have a $50,000
loan balance with a 6.22% interest rate — the a verage student loan interest rate for graduate students. On the
standard 10-year repayment plan, you’d pay $561 per month and $17,277 in interest over time.
College and univ ersity graduates earn signific antly more per y ear than those without these c redentials
throughout their c areers. Statistics Canada pro vides the f ollowing statistics from 2020 within Ontario’s
35-44-year-old population:3
• High school graduates earned $46,960
• College graduates made $56,550
• University graduates with a bachelor’s made $80,100
• University graduates with a master’s made $90,700
Naturally, there are exceptions to these average outcomes. You’ll find some college graduates stocking shelves or
serving coffee, and you’ll find college dropouts running multibillion-do llar enterprises. Microsoft co-founder
Bill Gates dropped out of c ollege after two years, as did his f ounding partner, Paul Allen. Generally, a college
or university education opens doors to increased job opportunities, increased earning potential, and a path to
advancement.
How Can You Get Out of Debt?
A few ways to get out of personal debt include c onsolidating debt, increasing your income, creating a budget,
reducing monthly bills, curbing impulse spending, using a debt rep ayment strategy , c onsidering c redit
counselling, using c ashback rewards, scaling back on sa vings temporarily, and c reating an emergenc y fund.
Bankruptcy is a final option, but not the best one, as it negatively affects your future credit rating.
Here are some ways to get out of personal debt:
• Create a budget: Adjust your budget and cut back on spending.
• Reduce monthly bills: Choose less costly options.
• Curb impulse spending: Wait a day or two to see if you feel strongly about buying an item before you
buy it. Stick to a budget.
3. OCUFA. (2024, September 7). CBC asks: Is university still worth it? We answered.
616 | 13.2: MANAGE PERSONAL DEBT

[Page 649]
• Consolidate debt: Look into consolidating your debt to simplify payments and potentially lower interest
rates. Combine multiple debts into one loan or line of credit with a single monthly payment.
• Consider credit counselling: A nonprofit credit counsellor can review your finances and debt and
recommend next steps.
• Increase income: Find ways to make extra money, such as taking on a part-time job.
• Use a debt repayment strategy: Simplify your debt repayment schedule and stay accountable.
• Use cashback rewards: Use cashback rewards to pay down your balance.
• Scale back on savings: Temporarily reduce your savings until you’re debt-free.
• Create an emergency fund: Set aside money for emergencies and avoid relying on credit in the future.
• Cut up your credit cards and start living on a cash-only basis. Although credit cards can be an important
way to build a credit rating, many people simply lack the financial discipline to handle them well. If you
see yourself in that statement, then moving to a pay-as-you-go basis, i.e., cash or debit card only, may be
for you. Be honest with yourself; if you can’t handle credit, then don’t use it.
• Pay your most expensive debts (high-interest) first. Pay down the debt with the highest interest charges.
By following these steps, y ou can begin to regain c ontrol of y our finances and w ork toward becoming debtfree.
If you’re unable to get out of debt, you may need to consider bankruptcy. However, bankruptcy is a lengthy
process, and it won’t erase all debts, like student lo ans. It can also ruin your credit rating and make it difficult
to get loans or credit in the future.
13.2: MANAGE PERSONAL DEBT | 617

[Page 650]
13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND
EXPENSES
Create a Personal Budget
A budget is a p lan that helps y ou manage y our money. It helps y ou figure out ho w much money y ou get,
spend, and save. Making a budget can help you balance your income with your savings and expenses. It guides
your spending to help y ou reach your financial goals. To learn how to make a personal budget and stick to it,
visit Making a Budget from the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada.
Apps like P ocketGuard, M onarch, or Ex cel spreadshe ets c an simp lify budgeting and track spending.
Regular review of the budget is important to ensure y ou sta y on track, and y ou will ne ed to adjust y our
spending if unexpected expenses arise or your priorities change.
A budget is especially important if you:
• don’t know where your money is going
• don’t save regularly
• have problems paying off your debts
• feel overwhelmed by your finances
• feel like you’re not in control of your finances
• want to make the most of your money
• are planning for a major purchase or a life event
Making a budget can help you:
• set spending limits
• find ways to pay down your debts
• reduce costs and save more
• live within your means
• reduce financial stress
• have more money for things that are important to you
• feel in control of your finances
Below are a few suggestions on how college students can more effectively manage their money while furthering
their education:
618 | 13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES

[Page 651]
• Set up a self-enforced budget and manage your credit card responsibly
• Utilize meal plans or make your own meals rather than eating out, and share expenses with roommates
• Investigate economic ways to buy essential items and supplies
• Distinguish between essential and non-essential purchases
• Take advantage of scholarships and grant awards
• Investigate off-campus housing and whether or not you can share a place with another student
• Get a paid, part-time job if your schedule permits, but don’t work full-time hours; otherwise, you may
not have time to keep up with your studies
• Take advantage of free (on campus) or low-priced (Value Village, Salvation Army) options for food,
clothing, and furniture
• If asked, request practical gifts for your birthday and other special occasions
• Buy used books when possible and resell them when you are finished with them, or check out the library
to see if you can borrow a course textbook
• Investigate whether or not you can remain on your parents’ health insurance plan instead of purchasing
health insurance yourself
Creating and using a budget is not just f or those who ne ed to closely monitor their c ash flows from month
to month be cause money is tight. Almost ev eryone can benefit from budgeting. 1
Building the right c ollege
student budget f or your situation c an help y ou sta y on track f or your financial lif e after graduation. Plus,
learning to build and maintain a budget is an important skill to c arry with you for the rest of your life. If you
aren’t sure ho w to c reate the perf ect college budget that w orks for you, then check out this fre e budgeting
course. It will walk you through the steps of building a budget that actually sticks.2
Build a Personal Budget
One of the best ways to manage your money and personal finances is to build a personal
budget.
A personal budget (for an individual) or household budget (for a group sharing a household)
is a plan for the coordination of income and expenses.
1. Ganti, A. (2024, October 17). What is a budget? Plus 11 budgeting myths holding you back. Investopedia.
2. Sharkey, S. (2024, September 27). How do you create a college student budget you’ll actually use? CleverGirlFinance.
13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES | 619

[Page 652]
You will need to have all your information gathered. This includes what you bring in — from
employment to student loans — and what goes out — for food, entertainment, health and
wellness, rent, utilities, etc. Be honest and thorough.
The Government of Canada, through the Financial Agency of Canada, created a tool that
provides an in-depth account of your personal finances. Use the Budget Calculator to document
your situation. Export your budget as an Excel spreadsheet. You will now be able to make
improvements, if appropriate. If your balance is negative, or when your expenses exceed your
income, you need to make some choices based on what you learned when you tracked your
spending. Ask yourself some tough questions:
• What can be eliminated from my expenses?
• What can be reduced from my expenses?
• In what areas can I be a smarter consumer?
• Where does my money seem to get gobbled up?
After you have made some difficult choices, turn back to the budget worksheet and create a
new “revised” column. You will want to work toward achieving a positive balance.
Should you end up with a surplus or positive balance, you need to make some choices about
what to do with the extra money. Perhaps you could put it toward your financial SMARTER
goal. Avoid the temptation to spend it.
Reduce Monthly Bills
Here are a few suggestions to help you reduce your monthly bills:
• Get a cheaper mobile phone plan.
• Pay your bills on time so you are not charged interest fees.
• Cancel unnecessary or unused subscriptions.
• Share rent, utilities, and grocery expenses with a roommate.
• Carpool to reduce travel costs, take transit, or buy less expensive auto insurance.
• Reduce, reuse, recycle. You can buy gently used clothing, furniture, bicycles, automobiles, and just
about anything. Don’t throw out leftover food; make a new recipe from it.
• Seek student discounts such as no-fee bank accounts, 20% off at specific retailers with student cards, etc.
• Use the money-back on your credit cards or customer loyalty points from various vendors whenever you
can.
620 | 13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES

[Page 653]
Impulse shopping
• Cook more often so you don’t need to eat out or order in. Eat out as a reward, not as a rule. A sandwich
or leftovers from home can be just as tasty and can save you $5 to $15 a day!
• Get a student scholarship or grant.
• Eliminate impulse buying.
Curb Impulse Spending
Here are a f ew suggestions to help y ou curb
impulse spending:
• Build a budget that follows the 50-30-20 rule
for budgeting.
• Take $100 out of the bank and don’t spend a
penny more.
• Make a list of what you plan to buy over a
week, a month, and stick to it. Seeing your
planned purchases can help you stay on track.
• Eat before you grocery shop. You don’t want
to be hungry and pick up a bunch of snack
food while grocery shopping.
• Sleep on it. Wait a day or two and think about whether or not you really need the item or really want the
item. Often, if you wait a few days, you will determine it is not needed, or you will find a better deal
somewhere else.
You’ll probably be surprised at how much of your money can quickly become somebody else’s money. If, for
example, you spend $3 every day for one cup of c offee at a c offee shop, you’re laying out nearly $1,100 a y ear
just for coffee. If you use your ATM card at a bank other than your own, you’ll probably be charged a fee that
can be as high as $3. If you do this even twice per month, that adds up to $72 per y ear in ATM fees. To avoid
ATM fees, choose a bank with no ATM fees or a bank that refunds ATM fees for student accounts. You might
also consider spending on y our credit card, then p aying off the b alance each month. To do this, y ou must
be self-disciplined in not charging more than y ou have saved for. This way, you won’t pay so many bank fees,
nor will you pay interest on your credit card balances. Planning ahead, reading the fine print, and making sure
13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES | 621

[Page 654]
you’re knowledgeable about the b anking services you’re using are the thre e most important things ev eryone
who is looking for free banking should do.3
You may or ma y not be among the Canadian c onsumers, reported by Statistics Canada, who purchase d
more than 2 billion litres of be er (e quivalent to 3.7 bottles of be er per w eek per person of legal drinking
age) during the 2021–2022 fiscal year, or purchase d one or more of the o ver 2 billion Tim Hortons c offees
sold each year.45
You may or may not be one of the 40% perc ent of Canadian c onsumers who regret ho lidayspending bills.6
Bottom line — if, at age 28, y ou have a good e ducation and a good job , a $60,000 inc ome,
and $70,000 in debt — b y no means an imp lausible scenario—there’s a v ery good reason wh y you should
think hard about c ontrolling your debt: y our level of indebte dness will be a key f actor in y our ability—or
inability—to reach your longer-term financial goals, such as home ownership, a dream trip, and, perhaps most
importantly, a reasonably comfortable retirement.
Self-Check Exercise: Financial Savvy Quiz
How financially savvy are you? Are you good at managing your money month-to-month, or do you
need a budget? Quiz yourself to find out.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=455#h5p-29
3. Wood, C. (2024, November 1). Canadian bank fees: The good, the bad and the ugly. Loans Canada.
4. Statistics Canada. (2023, July 4). Hot summer day...cold beer or cooler.
5. Tim Hortons. (n.d.). Fresh facts. Retrieved from https://company.timhortons.com/us/en/corporate/fresh-facts
6. Bazian, G. (2018, December 21). Over 40 percent of Canadians anticipate feelings of anxiety and regret over holiday spending bills. MNP.
622 | 13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES

[Page 655]
Media Attributions
“Woman Wearing Black Blazer Holding Shopping Bags” by Andrea Piacquadio, used under the Pexels license.
13.3: MANAGING YOUR INCOME AND EXPENSES | 623

[Page 656]
13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY
Choosing a c areer early in y our financial lif e c ycle is just one reason to start financial p lanning as soon as
possible. Consider this scenario: it’s your eighteenth birthday, and you receive $10,000 that your grandparents
had set aside in a trust f or you. You could spend it, perhaps fulfilling a long-held dream like funding flight
training for a priv ate pilot’s lic ense. Alternatively, your grandfather might enc ourage you to sa ve it instead,
taking advantage of the power of interest.
Interest is either the cost of borrowing money or the extra payment made to you by an investing institution,
typically expressed as an annual perc entage rate. If y ou deposit the $10,000 into a sa vings account earning 5
percent interest annually and lea ve it untouche d until after c ollege, your savings will gro w to appro ximately
$12,000—$10,000 in princip al and $2,000 in interest. That e xtra $2,000 c ould be rein vested or spent on
something else.
This prospect sparks curiosity: if $10,000 can grow to $12,000 in just four years, what might it be worth by
the time you retire at age 65? A quick search using a compound interest calculator reveals that, after 47 years at
a 5 percent interest rate, your $10,000 would grow to $104,345. While not enough to fully fund a retirement,
it’s a solid foundation.
But let’s take it a step further. Imagine that y our college education pays off as p lanned, leading to a good
job that allows you to add $10,000 annually to your retirement savings. With consistent contributions and the
same 5 perc ent annual interest rate, y our nest egg c ould grow to o ver $1.6 million b y age 65. This e xample
underscores the value of starting early with financial p lanning and making the most of c ompound interest to
secure your financial future.
Investing
Investing is what someone does when they buy something in hopes that it will grow in value over time. While
students don’t have a lot of money to in vest after paying tuition and their bills, it is important to start early .
Investing doesn’t have to be complicated. If you can afford to invest a small amount each month as a student,
it could pay off big in the long run. Here are a few investment options for students:1
• Guaranteed investment certificates (GICs)
1. Scotiabank. (n.d.). Student banking 101: What you need to know about investing as a student.
624 | 13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY

[Page 657]
Time value of money
• Bonds
• Stocks
• Mutual Funds
• Exchange-traded Funds (ETFs)
If you’re in a position to start investing as a student, you can set yourself up on the right financial path.
Compound Interest
Compound in terest is the proc ess of earning
interest on both the original princip al and the
accumulated interest from previous periods. Unlike
simple interest, which is c alculated only on the
principal amount, c ompound interest allo ws y our
investment or lo an to gro w at an ac celerating rate
over time because interest is added to the principal at
regular intervals.
Imagine, f or instanc e, y ou f ollow y our
grandfather’s advic e and in vest $10,000 (y our
principal) in a sa vings ac count with an annual
interest rate of 5 percent. At the end of the first year, your investment will earn $500 in interest, bringing your
total balance to $10,500. If you then reinvest the entire $10,500 at the same 5 perc ent rate, you’ll earn $525 in
interest during the second year, resulting in a total of $11,025. This proc ess continues each year, with interest
being earned on both your initial investment and the accumulated interest. Over time, this compounding effect
can lead your investment to grow to $81,496.67 by the time you reach 65.
Compound Interest Introduction
Watch Khan Academy’s video “Compound Interest Introduction” to help you decipher and
understand compound interest.
13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY | 625

[Page 658]
One or more interactive elements has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view
them online here: https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/
understandingbusiness/?p=460#oembed-1
Transcript for “Compound Interest Introduction” video [PDF–New Tab]. Closed captioning is
available on YouTube.
Source: Khan Academy. (2019, September 23). Compound Interest Introduction [Video]. YouTube.
Time Value of Money
The time value of money is a key financial c oncept that emphasizes that a do llar received today holds more
value than the same do llar received in the future. This princip le stems from the earning potential of money:
money available now can be invested to generate returns, such as interest or dividends, o ver time. The sooner
money is re ceived, the sooner it c an be utilize d to gro w wealth, making it inherently more v aluable in the
present.
Inflation p lays a signific ant ro le in this princip le. Ov er time, the general inc rease in pric es re duces the
purchasing power of money, meaning that a do llar in the future will buy less than it c an today. Additionally,
the opportunity c ost of dela ying money is another c ritical factor. For example, if y ou lend some one money,
you forgo your chance to in vest or spend it no w. To compensate for this sac rifice, interest is charge d, which
also accounts for factors like inflation and risk. Lending money to a go vernment, for instance, might involve
minimal risk, but lending to an individual introduces uncertainties, requiring higher compensation.
Ultimately, the time value of money reflects both the financial and practical realities of managing resources,
emphasizing the importanc e of imme diate ac cess to funds f or maximizing their potential. This princip le
underpins many financial decisions, from borrowing and lending to investment strategies.
The time v alue of money princip le emp hasizes that a do llar re ceived toda y begins earning interest
immediately, while a do llar received tomorrow starts earning later. F or example, suppose y ou receive $2,000
in cash gifts upon graduating from c ollege. At 23, with y our degree in hand and no imme diate need for the
money, y ou de cide to in vest the $2,000 in an ac count earning 10 perc ent interest c ompounded annually,
adding another $2,000 each year (roughly $167 per month) for the next 11 years. Note that the 10 percent rate
is used for illustration and is not representative of today’s market conditions.
The orange line in Figure 13.2 illustrates ho w your account balance grows each y ear, showing your total
savings at various ages between 24 and 67. By age 36, you’d have almost $52,000, and by age 50, over $196,000.
626 | 13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY

[Page 659]
By the time you reach 67, you’d have nearly $1 million. In contrast, the brown line shows what would happen
if you didn’t start saving until age 36. Although you’d still accumulate a respectable sum by age 67, it would be
less than half of what you would have accumulated by starting at 23. More importantly, to reach this amount,
you would need to contribute $2,000 every year for 32 years, instead of just 12 years.
Figure 13.2: The power of compound interest. [See image description.]
The reason should be fairly obvious: a dollar saved today not only starts earning interest sooner than one saved
tomorrow (or 10 years from now) but also can ultimately earn a lot more money in the long run. Starting early
means in y our 20s—early in stage 1 of y our financial life cycle. As one w ell-known financial advisor puts it,
“If you’re in your 20s and you haven’t yet learned how to delay gratification, your life is likely to be a constant
financial struggle.”2

2. All Financial M atters. (2006, February 10). An interview with Jonathan Clements – P art 2. Retrieved from http://allfinancialmatters.com/2006/
02/10/an-interview-with-jonathan-clements-part-2/.
13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY | 627

[Page 660]
Media Attributions
“Investment, Interest, Money royalty-free stock illustration” by Tumisu, used under the Pixabay license.
“Figure 13.2: The P ower of Compound Interest” is reuse d from The Financial Lif e Cy cle,
Kindred Grey, licensed CC BY 4.0.
Image descriptions
Figure 13.2
The x-axis shows age from 24 to 67, with labels in 5-year increments starting with 30 up to 65. The y-axis shows
savings from 0 to $1,000,000 in inc rements of $200,000. Two curved lines slope up , with one line beginning
with savings at 24 years sloping up to $1 million at 67 and the se cond line beginning at 35 and sloping up to
around $500,000 at age 67. Boxes of text point to each line.
The first line reads “The 24-year-old invested $2,000 per year for twelve years. She stopped adding money in,
but her total still grew. By age 67, she had almost a million dollars!”
The second line reads “Her friend did not in vest until she w as 35. Even though she in vested $2,000 ev ery
year, by the time she was 67 she had not caught up with her wiser friend. She had less than $500,000.”
[back to figure]
628 | 13.4: GROW YOUR MONEY

[Page 661]
13.5: BANKING
Suppose you want to sa ve or in vest — do y ou know how or where to do so? Y ou probably know that y our
bank branch can open a savings account for you, but interest rates on such accounts can be pretty unattractive.
Investing in individual stocks or bonds c an be risky, and usually re quires a lev el of funds that most students
don’t have. In those c ases, mutual funds c an be quite interesting. A mutual fund is a prof essionally managed
investment program in which shareholders buy into a group of diversified holdings, such as stocks and bonds.
Any of the Big Fiv e banks in Canada (RBC, CIBC, BMO , TD Canada T rust, or Sc otiabank) offer a range
of investment options, including inde xed funds, which track with w ell-known indices such as the T oronto
Stock Exchange, a.k.a. the TSX. Minimum investment levels in such funds can actually be within the reach of
many students, and the funds accept electronic transfers to make investing more convenient. We’ll leave a more
detailed discussion of investment vehicles to your more advanced courses.
You may choose to do your banking with a major bank or with a local credit union. Most people never notice
the differences between credit unions and banks. They offer similar products and services, but they’re not the
same. Table 13.1 highlight the key similarities and differences between the two.
Table 13.1: Similarities and differences between banks and credit unions
Banks Credit Unions
Usually banks are owned by shareholders. Customers are “members”; deposits are called “shares.”
Banks are for-profit organizations and shareholders expect
to receive a profit.
Credit Unions are non-profit organizations that strive for
service over profitability.
Banks offer a wide range of competitive and advanced
banking products.
Credit Unions may not have all the banking products as
major banks
Inter-branch banking makes banking convenient. Inter-branch banking is limited.
Banks must make sound financial decisions, collect
revenue, pay salaries, and compete with other institutions.
Credit unions must make sound financial decisions,
collect revenue, pay salaries, and compete with other
institutions.
Funds are secure. Funds are secure.
13.5: BANKING | 629

[Page 662]
Choose an Institution that is Right for You
As a college or university student, you might be out on your own for the first time. Part of
handling your own finances will be choosing a banking institution or institutions that best suit
your needs. Banks are eager to gain new clientele and establish brand loyalty early on. It should
come as no surprise, then, that just about every major banking institution in Canada offers
student banking plans.
Identify
You may want to read How to Choose A Bank that’s Right for You.
When choosing a financial institution, consider the geographical location, banking hours, and
ATM availability.
How many transactions do you make in a typical month? This can help you determine how
many monthly transactions you need to have included with your banking package.
Shop Around
Once you’ve identified the services you need, find out how much it will cost to get those
services. Start by looking at no-fee accounts to see if they meet your needs.
Compare whether it would be less expensive for you to get an account package for a fixed fee
that includes an unlimited or specific number of transactions each month, or to pay for each
individual transaction.
Paying extra fees for services you use regularly can be expensive. If there are certain products
or services that you use often, such as e-transfers, look for a chequing account that includes
those products or services as part of the monthly fee.
Use the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada’s (FCAC’s) interactive account comparison tool to
compare the chequing accounts that are available to suit the banking habits and needs you
have identified.
If you are a student, youth, senior or newcomer to Canada, you may be able to choose from
banking packages especially designed for you. These packages usually cost less, offer added
benefits or may have no monthly fees for a limited time.
630 | 13.5: BANKING

[Page 663]
Choose
After gathering all of this important information, it’s time to make your final selection. If you are
still uncertain, make an appointment with a banking specialist to have any additional questions
answered.
Be comfortable and confident with your choice of bank and account!
Avoid the Predators
Payday loans are offered by private lenders and cheque cashing outlets. People use them to
cash cheques or borrow money in advance of their paychecks.
But payday loans are very expensive ways to borrow money. Even though such money lending
companies have been recently regulated by the government, there are many high service fees
and interest charges. For instance:
• NSF fees are as high as $60 for each missed payment
• The average fee for a two-week $300 loan is over $60. If you work that out to a yearly
interest rate that is 520%!
Now you are ready to start planning for your financial future.
13.5: BANKING | 631

[Page 664]
13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING
If you can create a budget and sta y on budget, that’s a good thing; ho wever, as the sa ying goes, life happens,
and you may find that your car breaks down when you least expect it, and the bill could be over $1000 — that
may not ha ve been in y our budget. You may require a lo an, so ensure y ou understand the different types of
loans. You won’t get a bank loan unless you have a good credit rating. A good thing to do is to p lan for crises
and contingencies, which will help you mitigate these risks. It is alw ays a good idea to have a special reserve of
money, a “rainy day” fund, for emergencies or large expenditures you did not plan for.
The amount of money you should have in your emergency fund can vary depending on your personal and
financial goals. As a rule of thumb , financial experts recommend having enough sa vings to c over three to six
months’ worth of living expenses.1
For now, you are prob ably thinking about c redit cards more than an ything else. They are a great w ay to
establish your credit history so that y ou can apply and qualify f or some of those other lo ans later. There are
some important things about credit cards that you need to know, though, a big part of that has to do with the
way that y ou use the c redit card and ho w the b anks interpret that use — it’s c alled utilization. Read “ How
Does the Credit Utilization Percentage Impact My Credit Score?” to learn more.
Do y ou often find y ourself sp lurging or impulse shopping? Are y our monthly bills more than y ou c an
comfortably afford? If you find yourself unable to make timely payments on loans or rent, you risk damaging
your credit rating, which could affect your ability to borrow money in the future.
So, how do potential lenders determine if you are a good or bad credit risk? If your credit is poor, how might
this affect your ability to se cure a lo an or the interest rates y ou’ll be offered? In Canada, a credit rating is a
numerical score that reflects an individual’s or business’s creditworthiness, based on their financial behaviour
and credit history. Every time you use a credit card or borrow money, such as from a bank, your spending and
debt habits are recorded. This information is then used by lenders, such as banks and financial institutions, to
assess the risk of lending money or e xtending credit. Credit ratings in Canada are typic ally provided by two
main credit bureaus—Equifax Canada and TransUnion Canada.
While Canadian c redit sc ores are similar to the U.S. FICO sc ore, they are not e xactly the same. Cre dit
bureaus in Canada, like E quifax and T ransUnion, use their o wn scoring models to assess c reditworthiness.
Canadian credit scores range from 300 to 900, with most individuals f alling in the 600–700 range, which is
considered a good sc ore. Your score is influenc ed by factors such as p ayment history, debt-to-income ratio,
length of c redit history, and the types of c redit ac counts y ou ha ve. While Canadians ma y not use FICO
1. Horton, C. (2023, July 19). Emergency fund calculator. Forbes.
632 | 13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING

[Page 665]
scores, the c oncept is similar: both s ystems assess an individual ’s ability to rep ay debt and manage c redit
responsibly. You can access your Equifax score for free online or b y mail, and residents of Quebe c can access
their TransUnion score for free. Some b anks also pro vide free credit scores through online b anking services.
Ultimately, your credit score plays a key role in determining whether you qualify for credit and the interest rates
you’ll pay.
A credit score is calculated by considering five main criteria:
• Payment history
• Use of available credit
• Length of credit history
• Number of inquiries
• Types of credit accounts
This score, along with other credit history information, is shared by the credit bureaus with their subscribers,
helping lenders assess credit risk when considering loan applications.2
So, what does this mean f or you? It depends on y our credit behaviour. If y ou pay your bills on time and
don’t take on e xcessive debt, you’re likely to ha ve a high c redit score, which will make y ou more attractive to
lenders. This could result in receiving loans with reasonable interest rates. However, if your credit score is low,
lenders may be hesitant to approve your loan applications, or they might offer loans at higher interest rates. A
low credit score can even impact your ability to rent an apartment or secure certain jobs. That’s why it’s crucial
to do everything you can to maintain a strong credit score.
Credit Score Ranges and What They Mean
Although the e xact credit score ranges ma y vary slightly depending on the c redit bureau or sc oring agency,
understanding where your credit score falls is essential for assessing your financial health. Knowing your score
will help y ou understand what actions y ou may need to take to impro ve your creditworthiness and achiev e
your financial goals.
Here’s a breakdown of typical Canadian credit score ranges and their implications:
• Poor (300 to 559): If your score falls in this range, you may be considered a higher credit risk. You might
find it difficult to obtain loans or credit cards, and if approved, you could face higher interest rates or less
favourable terms.
2. Government of Canada. (n.d.). Credit report and score basics.
13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING | 633

[Page 666]
• Fair (560 to 659): With a score in this range, some lenders may still see you as a higher-risk borrower.
You may have access to credit, but at higher interest rates and less favourable terms.
• Good (660 to 749): A good credit score indicates you are a reliable borrower and can likely qualify for
many loans and credit cards with reasonable terms and rates.
• Very Good (750 to 849): At this level, you are seen as a low-risk borrower, which means you are likely to
qualify for the best loan terms, lower interest rates, and higher credit limits.
• Excellent (850 and above): If your score is in this range, you’re considered an exceptional borrower,
which typically means the best possible loan terms, lowest interest rates, and higher credit limits are
available to you.
As a young person, building a strong credit history that will lead to a higher credit score can be achieved with a
few key steps:
• Become an authorized user on a parent’s credit account.
• Obtain your own credit card, but don’t apply for several credit cards at the same time.
• Choose the right credit card for your needs.
• Use the credit card for small, regular purchases, but avoid large purchases unless necessary.
• Pay off your balance in full each month to avoid interest.
• Pay all your bills on time.
• Avoid cosigning loans for others or applying for multiple credit cards at once.
• Use student loans for education expenses only, and always make your payments on time.
If you qualify for your own credit card, aim for one with a lo w interest rate and no annual f ee to build y our
credit responsibly.
634 | 13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING

[Page 667]
Making a credit card payment
Secured Versus Unsecured Credit
Credit Cards
Credit c ards c an be se cured or unse cured.
Unsecured credit cards don’t re quire a deposit and
offer a c redit limit b ased on y our creditworthiness,
such as your credit score and income. If you carry a
balance, you’ll be charged interest, typically between
15% to 25% APR. The interest c ompounds,
meaning y ou’ll p ay interest on both the princip al
and any accumulated interest if the balance isn’t paid
off in full each month. Se cured credit cards, on the
other hand, re quire a deposit that acts as c ollateral
for your credit limit. These are often use d by people
building or rebuilding c redit and may have similar interest rates to unse cured cards, but carry less risk for the
issuer.
Your credit card usage directly impacts your credit score, particularly through factors like credit utilization
(the percentage of y our limit use d) and p ayment history. Many cards offer rewards such as c ashback, points,
or miles, along with benefits like purchase protection or travel insurance. However, credit cards can also come
with fees, including annual f ees, late p ayment fees, or foreign transaction fees. By managing y our credit card
well—paying on time, ke eping balances low, and a voiding high-interest debt—y ou can build a strong c redit
history and minimize interest charges.
Bank Loans
Bank loans come in both secured and unsecured varieties, and the type of loan you choose impacts factors like
interest rates, required collateral, and the potential for compound interest.
• Secured loans require you to provide collateral—something of value, such as a house (for a mortgage)
or a car (for an auto loan). This collateral reduces the risk for the lender, which typically results in lower
interest rates compared to unsecured loans. The interest rates for secured loans can vary widely based on
factors like the type of loan, your creditworthiness, and the collateral involved, but they are generally
more favourable than unsecured loans. For example, mortgage rates might range from 3% to 7%, while
auto loan rates might be in the 4% to 10% range. In a secured loan, if you fail to repay, the lender has the
right to seize the collateral.
• Unsecured loans, on the other hand, do not require collateral. Because there is no asset backing the
13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING | 635

[Page 668]
loan, these loans are considered higher risk for the lender, which typically results in higher interest rates.
Unsecured loans, such as personal loans or credit card debt, often come with interest rates ranging from
10% to 30%, depending on your credit score and financial history. Compound interest applies to
unsecured loans as well, meaning the interest is calculated not only on the original amount borrowed
but also on any interest that has accrued. This can cause the debt to grow quickly if not managed
carefully, particularly if only minimum payments are made.
In both types of loans, interest is generally calculated as simple interest for personal loans, mortgages, and auto
loans, meaning the interest is only charge d on the initial lo an amount. However, with credit cards and some
other types of rev olving credit, compound interest is use d, leading to interest on both the princip al and any
accrued interest. To minimize the impact of interest, it’s important to understand the loan terms, make timely
payments, and p ay more than the minimum re quired whenev er possib le. For both se cured and unse cured
loans, maintaining a strong c redit score c an help y ou se cure better interest rates and more f avourable loan
terms.
Media Attributions
“Black Payment Terminal” by Giulia Botan, used under the Pexels license.
636 | 13.6: BUILD A GOOD CREDIT RATING

[Page 669]
CHAPTER REVIEW
Key Takeaways
1. Financial planning is the ongoing process of managing your personal finances in order to
meet goals that you’ve set for yourself or your family.
2. Personal finance is the application of financial principles to the monetary decisions that you
make either for your individual benefit or for that of your family.
3. The financial planning life cycle of a typical individual’s life has three stages, each of
which is characterized by different life events. Stage 1: Focus on building wealth. Stage 2:
Focus on preserving and increasing wealth. Stage 3: Focus on living on one’s saved wealth
after retirement.
4. Your “personal debt” is how much money you owe to other people, businesses, banks,
credit card companies, and other creditors.
5. A few ways to get out of personal debt include consolidating debt, increasing your
income, creating a budget, using a debt repayment strategy, considering credit counselling,
using cashback rewards, reducing monthly bills, curbing impulse spending, scaling back on
savings temporarily, and creating an emergency fund. Bankruptcy is a final option, but not
the best one, as it negatively affects your future credit rating.
6. One of the best ways to manage your money and personal finances is to build a personal
budget. A personal budget (for an individual) or household budget (for a group sharing a
household) is a plan for the coordination of income and expenses. A personal or household
helps you track your income and spending so that you can manage money, avoid debt, and
save for goals.
7. Investing is what someone does when they buy something in hopes that it will grow in
value over time.
8. Compound interest refers to the effect of earning interest on your interest.
9. The time value of money is a key financial concept that emphasizes that a dollar received
today holds more value than the same dollar received in the future.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 637

[Page 670]
10. In Canada, a credit rating is a numerical score that reflects an individual’s or business’s
creditworthiness, based on their financial behaviour and credit history. Credit ratings in
Canada are typically provided by two main credit bureaus—Equifax Canada and TransUnion
Canada. While Canadian credit scores are similar to the U.S. FICO score, they are not exactly
the same.
11. Loans that involve some type of collateral are referred to as secured loans or secured credit.
Collateral is something of value, such as a house (for a mortgage) or a car (for an auto loan).
This collateral reduces the risk for the lender, which typically results in lower interest rates
compared to unsecured loans.
12. Loans that do not require collateral are referred to as unsecured loans or unsecured credit.
Because there is no asset backing the loan, these loans are considered higher risk for the
lender, which typically results in higher interest rates. Unsecured loans, such as personal
loans or credit card debt, often come with interest rates ranging from 10% to 30%,
depending on your credit score and financial history.
Download the “Chapter in Review” for
Chapter 13: Managing Personal Finances [PDF].
End-of-Chapter Exercises

1. OECD Financial Literacy. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
began measuring the financial literacy of the countries within the OECD using simple
scenario-based questions to test basic financial literacy knowledge. You can take the
assessment or download the examples with answers. How did you do?
638 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 671]
2. Find Your Latte Factor. Use this Find Your Latte Factor calculator to determine how much
money, over time, you could save by cutting out a small, unnecessary thing from your daily/
weekly expenses. What did you discover? Share with your class and/or professor.
3. Budget Calculator. The Government of Canada, through the Financial Agency of Canada,
created a tool that provides an in-depth account of your personal finances. Use the Budget
Calculator to document your situation. Export your budget as an Excel spreadsheet. What
did you learn? Where can you make improvements?
4. Financial Literacy. Test your financial literacy knowledge by taking the My Money Sense
Financial Literacy Quiz built by the Government of Singapore. How did you do? Did you learn
a few things? Share your learning with the class and/or professor.
5. Make a Budget. Follow the TD Bank Budgeting Advice for Students and make a budget for
yourself. Your college or university may also have a learning strategist who can help you with
this. Follow the 50-30-20 framework: 50% of your income should go toward your needs,
30% of your income should go toward your wants, and 20% of your income should go
toward savings or financial goals. After you finish, reflect on how you are doing and what
adjustments you may need to make to your spending habits. Discuss budgeting with the
class and/professor. It’s quite conceivable that your peers have budgeting challenges similar
to yours.
6. Reduce Expenses. Determine three ways in which you can reduce your expenses this
week. Put your ideas to work this coming week and track how you do. Were you successful?
If not, why not? If not, what will you change when you try again? If you were successful,
how much did you save? Share your results with the class and/or professor.
7. Online Banks. Use the Internet to research online banks, such as Tangerine, and review
their bank fees. Usually, these banks have no fees or lower fees than brick-and-mortar banks
(the Big Five). Would you trust your money to an online bank? Why or why not?
8. Check Your Credit Rating. Use the Internet to find information on how you can check your
credit score. What is your credit rating? How can you find out? Are there free options? Share
what you learned with your class and/or professor.
9. Investing. Visit one of the Big Banks’ websites and learn more about investing as a student.
What are the current interest rates banks are paying on investments? Do you like the idea of
investing in GICs, or are you more interested in investing in stocks? Explain. Share your
findings with your class and/or professor.
10. Financial Calculator. Use the calculators at Dinkytown.net to answer the following
questions. Starting today, how much would you need to save each month to become a
millionaire before you retire? You need $5,000 for a Caribbean Cruise in one year’s time. How
CHAPTER REVIEW | 639

[Page 672]
much would you need to deposit monthly in a savings account paying 1% interest in order to
meet your goal? Share your results with the class and/or professor.
11. Rent Versus Buy. Use the Internet to gather information regarding the cost of renting a
two-bedroom apartment or buying a two-bedroom condominium in your area. Go to
Dinkytown.net and use the site’s “rent-versus-buy calculator” to compare these costs.
Discuss your findings with the class and/or professor.
Self-Check Exercise: Managing Personal Finances Quiz
Check your understanding of this chapter’s concepts by completing this short self-check quiz.
An interactive H5P element has been excluded from this version of the text. You can view it online
here:
https://ecampusontario.pressbooks.pub/understandingbusiness/?p=467#h5p-30
Additional Resources
• TD Bank Budgeting Advice for Students
• Khan Academy’s Seven Minute Explanation of Compound Interest
• 7 Effective Tips for Reducing Your Expenses
640 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 673]
• 30-Day No Spend Challenge
• How to Save Money on Household Bills
• How I Saved $10,000 in Six Months
• A Third of Canadians Say They’re “House Poor”, and a Fifth Regret Their Purchase
• Government of Canada, Credit Report and Score Basics
• How to Pay Off $50,000 of Debt in One Year
• What College Students Need to Know About Money. YouTube Video.
• Compound Interest. YouTube Video.
• Financial Empowerment: Personal Finance for Indigenous and Non-Indigenous People
• Student Banking 101: What You Need to Know About Investing as a Student
• Financial Literacy Programs, Government of Canada
• One Page Financial Plan. YouTube Video
• Making a Budget. Government of Canada
• Financial Consumer Agency of Canada
Attributions
This chapter compiles content from various Open Educational Resources (OER). For details, please refer to
the Attributions page.
CHAPTER REVIEW | 641

[Page 674]
642 | CHAPTER REVIEW

[Page 675]
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES
• Case Study 1: Rooted Grounds Café (Chapter 2)
• Case Study 2: Navigating Uncertainty at Northern Bean Roasters (Chapter 3)
• Case Study 3: Navigating Cultural Expectations at NovaTech (Chapter 4)
• Case Study 4: Going Global at ClearView Instruments (Chapter 4)
• Case Study 5: CrossWave Technologies and the Ethics of Expansion (Chapter 5)
• Case Study 6: Fork & Field Fresh Market (Chapter 6)
• Case Study 7: Organizing for Growth at Riverstone Outdoor Gear (Chapter 7)
• Case Study 8: Motivating the Team at NovaCare Wellness (Chapter 7)
• Case Study 9: BrewNook Specialty Teas (Chapter 8)
• Case Study 10: Managing Risk at PrairieTech Solutions (Chapter 12)
Case Study 1: Rooted Grounds Café
This case study is associated with Chapter 2: Business Concepts.
As the f ounder and general manager of Roote d Grounds Caf é, Kiran M ehta built their c offee shop from
the ground up after graduating from business schoo l. Five years in, the business has gro wn steadily, but a
recent drop in customer visits and a rise in supp lier costs are putting pressure on rev enue. Kiran is concerned
about maintaining profitability without sac rificing the c afé’s c ommitments to loc al sourcing and inclusiv e
hiring. They ne ed to make a de cision that aligns with their v alues while b alancing the interests of diff erent
stakeholders. This dilemma is c entral to Kiran’s ro le not only as an entrepreneur but as a de cision-maker
accountable to a wider web of individuals and groups.
Rooted Grounds Café is in a bus y neighbourhood in Hamilton, Ontario . Kiran employs 12 people, many
of whom they hired through a local employment program supporting newcomers to Canada. The café’s menu
features organic c offee, teas, and b aked goods sourc ed from regional f arms and c ooperatives. The business
primarily serves young professionals, university and c ollege students, and f amilies in the loc al area. Roote d
Grounds earns rev enue through in-store sales and a small but gro wing mobile c offee c art servic e at loc al
events. While sales have increased annually until recently, rising input costs and changing consumer habits have
begun to aff ect Kiran’s bottom line. The c afé has earne d a reputation f or ethical sourcing and c ommunity
engagement, but Kiran is unsure of how much customers will value those efforts when prices start to rise.
Kiran sees three potential courses of action. The first option is to raise pric es across the board. This option
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 643

[Page 676]
could offset increased costs and preserv e the c afé’s revenue stream. Ho wever, they w orry this might alienate
budget-conscious customers and re duce f oot traffic further. Kiran w ould ne ed to c onsider the potential
reaction of their customer base, a key stakeholder group in the business.
A se cond option is to negotiate lo wer pric es with supp liers, some of whom are smaller produc ers that
depend on businesses like Roote d Grounds. While this strategy c ould help maintain aff ordability f or
customers, it w ould strain relationships with f armers and v endors, who are also c ritical stakeholders. Kiran
is worried that c ompromising on their v alues might damage the brand ’s identity and long-term trust in the
community.
The third option is to expand the café’s catering and coffee cart services. These segments have shown promise
and involve lower overhead costs compared to daily operations at the c afé. Scaling them could increase overall
revenue while re ducing dependenc y on in-store traffic. Ho wever, this w ould re quire reassigning staff and
possibly hiring ev ent-focused workers, creating operational c omplexity and re quiring input from emp loyees,
another key group of stakeholders.
With bills mounting and employee concerns growing, Kiran needs to make a timely and informed decision.
Ignoring the ne eds of an y one group c ould ha ve long-term c onsequences. Understanding the w eb of
stakeholders—customers, emp loyees, supp liers, and the bro ader c ommunity—is essential to na vigating the
café’s future without compromising its purpose or profitability.
Discussion Questions
1. Identify at least four stakeholder groups relevant to Rooted Grounds Café. How might each group be
impacted by the decisions Kiran is considering?
2. Using this case, explain the concepts of entrepreneurship, profit, and revenue. How do these terms apply
to Kiran’s role and decision-making?
3. Describe two dimensions of today’s business environment visible in this case and explain how they
influence the decisions Kiran must make.
[top]
Case Study 2: Navigating Uncertainty at Northern Bean
Roasters
This case study is associated with Chapter 3: Economics and Banking.
Mika Schmidt, the c o-owner of Northern Bean Ro asters, is reviewing the c ompany’s financials with
concern. Sales ha ve slowed over the p ast six months, and c osts are rising. Customers are spending less, and
644 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 677]
suppliers are w arning of upc oming price increases. Mika and his business p artner, Mattis Tremblay, started
the specialty coffee roasting company five years ago in Sudbury, Ontario. They’ve built a lo yal customer base
through local cafés, online sales, and a small retail shop. But now, they’re unsure how to plan for the year ahead.
Northern Bean Ro asters employs 18 pe ople and sourc es its beans from f air-trade cooperatives in Central
and South America. The company’s revenue depends on both who lesale and direct-to-consumer sales. While
the business has gro wn steadily, Mika notices that consumer demand is softening. They suspe ct that broader
economic conditions are playing a role, but they aren’t sure how to interpret the signals or what actions to take.
Mika starts researching the b asics of e conomics to better understand what’s happening. They learn that
economics is the study of how individuals, businesses, and governments make choices about allocating limited
resources. They also begin tracking key indicators like GDP growth, unemployment rates, and inflation. Mika
sees that Canada’s GDP growth has slowed, unemployment is rising slightly, and inflation remains abo ve the
Bank of Canada’s target. These trends suggest that the economy may be entering a slowdown.
Mika also loo ks into fisc al and monetary po licy. They read that the f ederal go vernment has re cently
introduced new spending programs to support small businesses and stimulate demand—an e xample of
expansionary fiscal policy. At the same time, the Bank of Canada has raise d interest rates to c ombat inflation,
a form of contractionary monetary policy. Mika is confused. One policy is trying to boost the economy, while
the other is trying to cool it down. They wonder how these mixed signals will affect their business.
Mattis suggests they c onsider delaying a p lanned equipment upgrade and f ocus on preserving c ash. Mika
agrees but also wants to explore whether they can benefit from any government support programs. They also
consider adjusting pricing or offering promotions to maintain customer loyalty during uncertain times. Before
making any de cisions, Mika w ants to better understand ho w e conomic performance is measure d and ho w
policy decisions might affect consumer behaviour, borrowing costs, and business investment.
Discussion Questions
1. How does the definition of economics help explain the challenges Mika and Mattis are facing at
Northern Bean Roasters?
2. What are the key tools and indicators Mika is using to evaluate economic performance, and what do
they suggest about the current state of the economy?
3. How might fiscal and monetary policy affect Northern Bean Roasters’ short-term decisions and longterm planning?
[top]
Case Study 3: Navigating Cultural Expectations at
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 645

[Page 678]
NovaTech
This case study is associated with Chapter 4: Global Business.
Remi Roy is the Dire ctor of International Partnerships at NovaTech Solutions. They are currently leading
the company’s efforts to estab lish a joint v enture with a mid-size d technology firm in South Korea. As the
primary liaison betw een the tw o organizations, Remi notic es gro wing tension during virtual me etings.
Communication f eels straine d, deadlines are interprete d differently, and de cision-making proc esses do not
align. These issues c oncern them be cause the success of the joint v enture depends on effective collaboration.
Remi ne eds to understand what is c ausing the disc onnect and ho w to address it bef ore the p artnership
deteriorates.
NovaTech Solutions is a Canadian softw are company based in Kitchener, Ontario . It dev elops enterprise
software for mid-sized businesses, focusing on workflow automation, data analytics, and customer relationship
management. The company employs around 300 people, most of whom work at the headquarters. NovaTech’s
clients include logistics firms, healthc are providers, and e ducational institutions, primarily loc ated in North
America and Western Europe. The c ompany earns revenue through software licensing, subscription services,
and c onsulting. W ith a strong domestic presenc e, No vaTech is no w e xpanding into Asia to div ersify its
customer base. The joint venture in South Korea represents its first major step into this market.
Remi considers several options to address the cultural misalignment. One option is to imp lement a c rosscultural training program f or both the Canadian and Korean teams. This program introduc es Hofste de’s
cultural dimensions, such as power distance, individualism versus collectivism, and uncertainty avoidance. The
goal is to build mutual understanding and provide both teams with tools to navigate cultural differences. Remi
believes this c ould improve communication and c ollaboration, but it re quires time and resourc es to dev elop
and deliver.
Another option is to restructure the leadership model of the joint v enture to include c o-leads from both
countries. This appro ach ensures that both cultural perspe ctives are represente d in de cision-making. Remi
thinks this could help balance expectations and reduce misunderstandings. However, they also recognize that
it might slow down decision-making and create ambiguity if leadership roles are not clearly defined.
A third option is to adopt a more adaptive project management framework. This would involve customizing
workflows to ac commodate cultural pref erences, such as hierarchic al communication in the Korean c ontext
and consensus-driven approaches in the Canadian c ontext. Remi se es potential in this appro ach to impro ve
operational harmon y, but they are also a ware that it c ould c omplicate standardization and inc rease
administrative overhead.
Remi must de cide how to proc eed. The cultural tensions betw een the teams threaten the suc cess of the
joint v enture. If Remi does not act quickly , No vaTech risks damaging its reputation and losing a v aluable
opportunity in the Asian market. A timely and thoughtful solution is essential to ensure the partnership’s longterm success.
646 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 679]
Discussion Questions
1. Using Hofstede’s cultural dimensions, identify and explain the key cultural differences that may be
contributing to the challenges between the Canadian and Korean teams.
2. Evaluate the three options Remi is considering. Which option do you think best addresses the cultural
challenges, and why?
3. Propose an additional strategy that Remi could use to manage cultural differences in international
partnerships. How does your strategy align with Hofstede’s framework?
[top]
Case Study 4: Going Global at ClearView Instruments
This case study is associated with Chapter 4: Global Business.
Jordan Thompson, the Business Dev elopment M anager at ClearV iew Instruments, is reviewing the
company’s latest sales report. Domestic sales ha ve remained flat for the past three quarters, and the leadership
team is pressuring them to find new gro wth opportunities. Jordan believ es that expanding into international
markets could help the company grow, but they need to evaluate whether the potential benefits outweigh the
risks. The decision matters not only for the company’s future but also for Jordan’s role in shaping its strategic
direction.
ClearView Instruments is a Canadian c ompany based in Waterloo, Ontario. It designs and manuf actures
precision lab e quipment used in research labs, hospitals, and univ ersities. The c ompany employs about 200
people and earns rev enue b y selling high-quality instruments and off ering servic e c ontracts. M ost of its
customers are loc ated in Canada, and the c ompany is kno wn for its reliability and strong customer support.
However, c ompetition is inc reasing as international firms enter the Canadian market, and ClearV iew’s
leadership is concerned about losing market share if they don’t expand.
Jordan identifies three possible strategies for international growth. The first option is to partner with a U.S.-
based distributor. This would allow ClearView to enter the American market quickly by using the distributor’s
existing sales network. It would reduce the company’s upfront costs and risks, but it w ould also mean giving
up some control over pricing and customer relationships.
The second option is to begin exporting directly to fast-growing markets like India or Brazil. These countries
are investing heavily in research and healthcare, and demand for lab equipment is rising. This approach could
offer higher profits and more c ontrol, but it also c omes with challenges. Jordan is c oncerned about tariffs,
customs procedures, and currency fluctuations that could affect pricing and delivery.
The third option is to in vest in a small offic e and w arehouse in German y, giving ClearV iew a b ase in the
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 647

[Page 680]
European Union. This w ould be a more e xpensive and long-term strategy , but it c ould provide access to a
large, stable market with f ewer trade b arriers due to the EU’s fre e trade po licies. Jordan notes that the EU’s
harmonized regulations might also make it easier to meet product standards across multiple countries.
Jordan kno ws they ne ed to present a clear re commendation to the e xecutive team soon. The c ompany
can’t afford to delay, but each option involves trade-offs. Choosing the right path could help ClearView grow
internationally and stay competitive, or lead to costly mistakes in unfamiliar markets.
Discussion Questions
1. Why should ClearView Instruments consider international trade, and how do the reasons relate to the
company’s current situation?
2. What tools for measuring international trade should Jordan use to compare the three options, and what
factors should they consider?
3. What barriers to international trade might ClearView face under each option, and how could free trade
agreements influence the company’s decision?
[top]
Case Study 5: CrossWave Technologies and the Ethics of
Expansion
This case study is associated with Chapter 5: Ethics and Social Responsibility.
As Chief Operating Offic er at CrossW ave Technologies, a mid-size d software development firm b ased in
Mississauga, Ontario, Robin Lin is responsib le for overseeing operational strategy during a c ritical phase of
expansion. The c ompany se cured a c ontract with a ma jor tele com pro vider to dev elop a new p latform for
customer data integration, and with that c ame increased pressure to hit tight deadlines and boost rev enue. In
the midst of the project, Robin discovered that one of the senior developers on the team obtained
specifications about a competing bid through a personal contact at the telecom provider. Although using this
information could give CrossWave a significant advantage in finalizing its solution, Robin is deeply concerned
about the ethic al and legal imp lications. Robin f aces a dilemma betw een adv ancing the firm’s c ompetitive
position and maintaining its commitment to ethical conduct.
CrossWave Technologies specializes in cloud-b ased software solutions for medium to large enterprises. It
employs 85 staff, most of whom are softw are engineers, designers, and proje ct managers. The firm generates
revenue through servic e c ontracts with tele com, financial servic es, and logistics c ompanies. Its v alue
proposition is built around se cure, customizable tools and long-term client support. The organization prides
648 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 681]
itself on being ethic al and c ommunity-focused, regularly donating softw are licenses to loc al nonprofits and
offering internship programs for students from underrepresente d groups. The c ompany’s revenue has grown
steadily over the past three years, and its owners are preparing for a potential acquisition that could increase its
market exposure.
Robin considers three primary options. One is to inform senior leadership of the situation and recommend
reporting the incident to the client, which c ould protect the firm’s long-term c redibility and align with its
stated values. This option, however, carries risks: the company might lose the c ontract, and stakeholders such
as employees and owners could face negative financial consequences.
A second option is to quietly disc ard the
of the breach. Robin reasons that the firm did not so licit the data and w ouldn’t act on it. This option a voids
immediate conflict, but it fails to address the ethical lapse, particularly if the developer involved remains on the
team without consequence.
The third option in volves using the inf ormation to refine CrossW ave’s bid while rationalizing that
competitors would likely do the same in a high-stakes environment. The developer argues that this is common
in the industry and that failing to use the advantage would hurt the team’s performance metrics. Robin knows
this rationale—“everyone else does it”—is a f amiliar justification f or unethic al beha viour, but they c annot
ignore the short-term gains that may follow.
In addition to the immediate ethical issue, Robin recognizes broader concerns about how ethical behaviour
is fostered and monitore d within the organization. While the c ompany has a f ormal code of c onduct, there
has nev er be en an internal review or c orporate social responsibility audit to ev aluate whether po licies are
implemented consistently. Employees have not received recent ethics training, and decisions tend to be guided
by the pace of business rather than explicit ethical frameworks. Robin sees this situation not only as a singular
dilemma but also as a refle ction of the c ompany’s larger responsibility to act ethic ally to ward its
stakeholders—owners, employees, customers, and the community.
Robin needs to decide how to proceed before the next project milestone in two weeks. Their response will
shape both the outcome of the current project and the organization’s long-term approach to ethics and social
responsibility. A timely resolution is necessary to preserve the integrity of the de cision-making process and to
ensure that the company remains accountable to its stated values.
Discussion Questions
1. What ethical issue is Robin facing, and what rationalizations for unethical behaviour are present in the
case? How does this relate to the definition of business ethics?
2. Who are CrossWave’s key stakeholders, and how might each group be affected by the choices Robin is
considering? In your response, explain the concept of corporate social responsibility and identify how
each of the four types of CSR applies to this case.
3. What steps could CrossWave take to become a more ethically conscious organization? Based on the case,
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 649

[Page 682]
how could the company perform a CSR audit?
[top]
Case Study 6: Fork & Field Fresh Market
This case study is associated with Chapter 6: Entrepreneurship and Business Structure.
Roozbeh Nuri, o wner and manager of F ork & Field Fresh M arket, a small groc ery store in Halif ax, has
operated the business as a so le proprietorship sinc e opening it thre e years ago. After gaining traction in the
local community, Roozbeh is considering expanding into a second location. However, they are unsure whether
to continue as a so le proprietor, take on a business p artner, or inc orporate. Roozbeh’s c oncerns center on
accessing c apital, managing liability , and structuring the business in a w ay that supports gro wth. Roozbeh
knows that the de cision will imp act not only their financial future but also the store’s sustainability in an
increasingly competitive market.
Fork & Field Fresh M arket offers locally sourced produce, baked goods, and prep ared meals, c atering to
environmentally c onscious shoppers and f amilies se eking alternativ e groc ery options. The business has six
employees, including p art-time staff and one assistant manager. Roozbeh handles procurement, marketing,
and most financial tasks. Rev enues come from in-store sales and a new subsc ription delivery service that has
grown steadily during the p ast y ear. The store has built customer lo yalty through f arm p artnerships and
community events. With the prospect of increasing rent in her current space and rising competition from chain
retailers introducing “local sections,” Roozbeh sees both opportunities for expansion and threats to long-term
viability.
One option is to maintain their current sole proprietorship and seek a small business loan to open a second
location. This structure would allow Roozbeh to retain complete control over business decisions and keep the
company’s profits. However, they would remain personally liable for all debts, a risk they found unsettling with
expansion on the horizon. If the new location struggled financially, their personal assets could be at stake.
A se cond option is to f orm a p artnership with a f ormer c olleague who has e xperience in supp ly chain
logistics and is interested in investing. This would bring complementary skills and financial backing, and lessen
Roozbeh ’s da y-to-day responsibilities. Yet it w ould also re quire shared decision-making, profit-sharing, and
clear agreements around dispute resolution. Roozbeh values their independence and is worried about potential
conflicts or the risk of misaligned visions for the business.
The third option is to incorporate the business, thereby protecting Roozbeh ’s personal assets and opening
new possibilities f or attracting in vestors. Inc orporation c ould enhanc e the store’s c redibility and ac cess to
funding, which might be useful in opening additional loc ations in the future. Ho wever, Roozbeh is hesitant
650 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 683]
about the c osts and administrativ e demands of inc orporation, including c orporate tax filings and f ormal
record-keeping. Roozbeh also fears losing the community-driven identity that defines their small business.
Roozbeh ne eds to de cide ho w to structure F ork & Field bef ore pursuing the e xpansion. The timing is
important, as her lease renewal is approaching, and the market for prime locations is tightening. Her decision
will influence how the company grows, who has control, and how risk and reward are managed.
Discussion Questions
1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each ownership structure Roozbeh is considering? Based
on their goals, what factors should they prioritize in their decision?
2. What reasons did Roozbeh have for launching Fork & Field as a small business, and what opportunities
and threats are they currently facing?
3. If Roozbeh incorporated their business, what changes might they expect in terms of liability, financing,
and day-to-day operations? How might this affect their ability to maintain the store’s local identity?
[top]
Case Study 7: Organizing for Growth at Riverstone Outdoor
Gear
This case study is associated with Chapter 7: Management and Leadership.
Alex Carter, the newly promote d Operations M anager at Riv erstone Outdoor Gear, is f acing a challenge.
The company has grown rapidly over the past two years, and its once-simple structure is starting to show signs
of strain. Employees are unclear about who makes decisions, departments are duplicating work, and long-term
planning is inconsistent. Alex is responsible for improving coordination across the company and helping senior
leadership prepare for the next phase of growth. Alex knows that how the company is structured—and how it
plans—will be critical to its continued success.
Riverstone Outdoor Gear is a Canadian c ompany based in Kelowna, British Columbia. It designs and sells
outdoor equipment such as backpacks, tents, and hiking accessories. The company employs about 150 people
and sells its products through both retail p artners and its o wn e-commerce site. Riverstone has built a strong
brand by focusing on sustainability and durability, and it has a loyal customer base across Canada. As demand
grows, the company is expanding into the U.S. market and adding new product lines, which is putting pressure
on its internal systems and leadership structure.
Alex works closely with the c ompany’s three levels of management. The top-lev el executives, including the
CEO and CFO, focus on long-term strategy and major financial decisions. Middle managers, like department
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 651

[Page 684]
heads in marketing, product dev elopment, and logistics, are responsib le for translating those strategies into
operational plans. Front-line supervisors manage day-to-day tasks and ensure that employees meet production
and service goals. Alex realizes that improving communication and clarity between these levels is essential.
He also ne eds to re commend a better w ay to organize the c ompany’s departments. Currently, Riverstone
uses a functional structure, with departments based on business functions like sales, finance, and production.
However, as the c ompany gro ws, this model is c reating silos. One option is to shift to a product-b ased
departmentalization, where teams are organized around product lines such as camping gear, travel accessories,
and apparel. Another option is to use ge ographic departmentalization to better serv e the Canadian and U.S.
markets separately. A third option is to adopt a matrix structure, c ombining functional and product-b ased
approaches, though this could increase complexity.
In addition to restructuring, Ale x is taske d with helping the e xecutive team impro ve its p lanning process.
Right now, most planning is reactive and short-term. Alex believes the company needs to adopt a more formal
approach to strategic p lanning. This w ould involve setting long-term go als, analyzing internal and e xternal
environments, and aligning resourc es to achiev e those go als. Alex knows that without a clear strategic p lan,
Riverstone risks losing focus as it grows.
Alex prepares to present their re commendations to the leadership team. They kno w that the c ompany’s
structure and planning process must evolve to support its growth, but each option has trade-offs. The decisions
made now will shape how Riverstone operates for years to come.
Discussion Questions
1. What are the three levels of management at Riverstone Outdoor Gear, and what are the responsibilities
at each level?
2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the different departmentalization options Alex is
considering?
3. Why is strategic planning important for Riverstone at this stage, and what steps should the company
take to develop an effective strategic plan?
[top]
Case Study 8: Motivating the Team at NovaCare Wellness
This case study is associated with Chapter 7: Management and Leadership.
Huan Li, the Clinic M anager at No vaCare W ellness, is c oncerned about a re cent drop in emp loyee
engagement. The clinic, which off ers p hysiotherapy, massage therap y, and w ellness c oaching, has gro wn
652 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 685]
quickly over the past year. While patient numbers are up, staff morale is down. Huan notices that some team
members are arriving late, others are missing deadlines, and a f ew have even started looking for jobs elsewhere.
Huan knows that if they don’t address the issue soon, the clinic’s reputation and performance could suffer.
NovaCare Wellness is a mid-size d health and w ellness clinic loc ated in Mississauga, Ontario . It emp loys
35 pe ople, including p hysiotherapists, massage therapists, administrativ e staff, and w ellness c oaches. The
clinic serv es a div erse client b ase and is kno wn f or its personalize d c are and c ommunity outreach. Huan,
who has be en with the c ompany for five years, is responsib le for day-to-day operations, staff sche duling, and
performance management. They report directly to the clinic’s founder and CEO, Maria Lopez.
Huan begins by meeting with team members to understand what’s going on. Some emp loyees say they feel
overworked and underappreciated. Others mention that they don’t see a clear path for growth or advancement.
A few say they enjoy the work but feel disconnected from the clinic’s goals. Huan realizes that different people
are motivated by different things, and they ne ed to find a w ay to address these c oncerns using a v ariety of
approaches.
Huan considers several motivational theories to guide their strategy . One is M aslow’s Hierarchy of Needs,
which suggests that people are motivated to meet basic needs before they seek higher-level goals like belonging
and self-actualization. Huan wonders if some employees are struggling with job se curity or work-life balance,
which could be affecting their motivation.
Huan also looks at Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory, which separates hygiene factors (like salary and working
conditions) from motiv ators (like re cognition and achiev ement). Huan thinks that while the clinic off ers
competitive pay, it may be lacking in recognition and opportunities for personal growth.
Finally, Huan considers the Expectancy Theory, which suggests that motivation depends on whether people
believe their effort will lead to good perf ormance, that performance will lead to rewards, and that the rewards
are v aluable to them. Huan realizes that some emp loyees ma y not se e a clear link betw een their w ork and
outcomes, or may not value the rewards currently offered by the clinic.
Huan prepares to present a p lan to M aria that includes a mix of short-term and long-term actions. These
include creating clearer c areer paths, offering more regular f eedback and re cognition, and in volving staff in
setting team goals. Huan also w ants to ensure that emp loyees understand how their efforts contribute to the
clinic’s success and that rew ards are meaningful and aligne d with their v alues. Huan kno ws that impro ving
motivation won’t happen o vernight, but they believ e that app lying the right the ories can help them build a
more engaged and productive team.
Discussion Questions
1. Which motivational theories are most relevant to the challenges Huan is facing at NovaCare Wellness,
and why?
2. How could Huan apply Herzberg’s Two-Factor Theory to improve employee motivation at the clinic?
3. How can Expectancy Theory help Huan design a more effective motivation strategy for their team?
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 653

[Page 686]
[top]
Case Study 9: BrewNook Specialty Teas
This case study is associated with Chapter 8: Marketing Management.
Ishrat Hassan, the marketing lead at BrewNoo k Specialty Teas, is facing a plateau in customer ac quisition
despite a re cent uptick in w ebsite visitors. While e xisting customers giv e positiv e reviews and repurchase
rates are steady , the c ompany’s new product line—herb al tea b lends designe d f or ev ening relax ation—is
underperforming. Ishrat believ es the issue stems from the marketing mix not being aligne d with target
customer expectations, and they ne ed to act quickly bef ore the upc oming winter season, which historic ally
drives the highest tea sales. This de cision is c rucial to Ishrat as their team is responsib le for managing brand
reputation and sustaining revenue from new product offerings.
BrewNook operates out of V ictoria, British Co lumbia, and emp loys 15 full-time staff. The c ompany sells
loose-leaf tea b lends and ac cessories through its online store and tw o retail kiosks loc ated in urb an shopping
centers. Its c ore customer b ase c onsists of health-c onscious c onsumers age d 25–55 who v alue small-b atch,
natural products. Rev enue is primarily generate d through e-c ommerce, with sales peaking during gift-giving
seasons. The new product line, “Nightbrew ,” is f ormulated to appeal to customers se eking c affeine-free,
calming beverages. Despite this, early indic ators suggested that w ebsite visitors are not c onverting to buy ers
at the e xpected rate, and retail staff report that man y kiosk visitors are una ware that Nightbrew is a distinct
product category.
Ishrat c onsiders repositioning the product within the marketing mix. First, they c an revise the product
packaging and descriptions to more clearly emphasize the calming, health-related attributes of Nightbrew. This
can help reinforce its differentiation as a specialty wellness item rather than a standard tea flavour. Refining the
product’s classification can shift customer perception and clarify its intended value.
A second option focuses on pricing strategy. Nightbrew is priced similarly to BrewNoo k’s traditional teas,
but Ishrat wonders if this f ails to signal its premium ingre dients and functional purpose. Adjusting the pric e
upward slightly can reposition the product as a targeted wellness solution, appealing to buyers seeking quality
over quantity. However, Ishrat also ne eds to ensure that the v alue communicated through other elements of
the mix supports this potential change.
A third option in volves o verhauling the promotional appro ach using integrate d marketing
communications. The current promotion relies hea vily on w eekly email newsletters and Instagram posts.
Ishrat proposes launching a f ocused campaign that includes short e xplainer videos, podcast sponsorships in
the wellness category, and samp ling partnerships with sle ep product brands. This strategy in volves cohesive
messaging across multiple platforms and provides more detailed product education for new customers.
With only six w eeks before peak winter sales begin, Ishrat ne eds to realign the 4Ps to ensure Nightbrew
654 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 687]
reaches its intended market. Without a timely response, the product risks being overlooked despite its potential
fit within growing wellness trends.
Discussion Questions
1. Identify and describe the four elements of the marketing mix used in this case. How are they currently
being applied, and what changes could better support Nightbrew’s success?
2. How is BrewNook attempting to differentiate Nightbrew, and what role does product classification play
in shaping marketing strategy?
3. How might BrewNook integrate the various promotional activities to improve promotional
effectiveness for Nightbrew?
[top]
Case Study 10: Managing Risk at PrairieTech Solutions
This case study is associated with Chapter 12: Information and Risk Management.
Avery Sinclair, the Chief Operating Officer at PrairieTech Solutions, is preparing for a board meeting where
they must present a risk management plan for the company’s upcoming product launch. PrairieTech, a Reginabased software firm, is prep aring to release a new cloud-b ased platform for small business ac counting. The
product has strong market potential, but Avery knows that launching new technology always comes with risk.
They need to assess how much risk the company is willing to take and how to manage it effectively.
PrairieTech employs 60 people and serves clients across Western Canada. The company has a reputation for
reliable, user-friendly softw are and strong customer support. Its leadership team is ambitious but c autious.
Avery knows that the company’s risk tolerance is shaped by several factors. First, its financial position is stable
but not overly liquid, so a failed launch could strain resources. Second, the company’s leadership culture values
careful p lanning and long-term relationships o ver rapid gro wth. Third, PrairieT ech operates in a regulate d
industry where data security and compliance are critical.
Avery begins by identifying the potential risks associate d with the product launch. These include te chnical
failures, c ybersecurity threats, customer adoption dela ys, and reputational damage if the product
underperforms. They use the five steps of risk management to guide their approach: identifying risks, assessing
their likelihood and impact, developing response strategies, implementing the plan, and monitoring outcomes.
To respond to these risks, Avery considers three main strategies. For technical failures, they recommend risk
mitigation by investing in additional testing and quality assurance. For cybersecurity threats, they propose risk
APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES | 655

[Page 688]
transfer by purchasing c yber liability insuranc e. For customer adoption dela ys, they suggest risk acceptance,
recognizing that some uncertainty is unavoidable and planning to adjust marketing efforts as needed.
As Avery finalizes their presentation, they refle ct on ho w risk is a natural p art of doing business. The key
is not to avoid risk entirely, but to understand it, p lan for it, and make inf ormed decisions that align with the
company’s goals and values.
Discussion Questions
1. What three factors influence PrairieTech’s risk tolerance, and how do they shape the company’s
approach to the product launch?
2. What are the five steps of risk management, and how does Avery apply them in this case?
3. What are the three risk response strategies Avery uses, and what examples do they provide for each?
[top]
Artificial Intelligence Disclosure: These case stu dies were created using Microsoft Copilot, an AI-based too l
designed to gener ate text based on user i nputs, and edited by A nela Tomac and Conestoga Open Lea rning. In
accordance with the current guidance from Creative Com mons, the content created usi ng generative AI too ls is
shared under a CC0 1.0 Universal Deed.
656 | APPENDIX: CASE STUDIES

[Page 689]
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Absolute advantage
The type of advantage that exists when a nation is (1) the only source of a particular product, or (2) it can
make more of a product using fewer resources than other countries.
Academic integrity
A commitment to acting with honesty , trust, fairness, respect, and responsibility in ac ademic work and
studies.
Accessibility
The practice of making information, activities, and/or environments sensible, meaningful, and usable for
as many people as possible.
Accounting
The organizational function that is f ocused on re cording, ke eping, analyzing and c ommunicating
financial information.
Advertising
Paid, non-personal communication designed to create an awareness of a product or company.
Assets
Resources from which a business expects to gain some future benefit.
Audit
An examination and verification of records and supporting documents.
Autocratic leaders
Directive leaders who pref er to make de cisions and so lve problems on their o wn with little input from
subordinates.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 657

[Page 690]
Balance of payments
The difference, over a period of time, betw een the total flo w of money c oming into a c ountry and the
total flow of money going out.
Balance of trade
An economic measure that represents the diff erence between the v alue of a c ountry’s exports and the
value of its imports over a specific period.
Balance sheet
A financial report that sho ws assets, liabilities, and e quity invested in the business at a spe cific point in
time.
Bank of Canada
A spe cial type of Cro wn c orporation that is o wned b y the f ederal go vernment, but has c onsiderable
independence to carry out its responsibilities and therefore operates separately from the political process.
Benchmarking
A proc ess of c omparing an organization’s practic es and perf ormance with those of others to identify
opportunities for improving efficiency and effectiveness.
Benefits
Compensation other than salaries, hourly w ages, or financial incentives. Usually includes p aid time off,
health insurance and retirement benefits.
Big data
Large and complex datasets that cannot be handled by traditional data-processing methods. The defining
characteristics of big data are volume, velocity, variety, veracity, and value (the 5Vs).
Brand strategy
A strategy that shapes the o verall e xperience customers ha ve with a c ompany, e xemplifying its v alues,
promises, and personality.
658 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 691]
Budget
A financial plan that estimates how much money you'll make and spend over a specific period of time. It
can be used by individuals, families, businesses, and governments.
Budget audit
An evaluation that compares actual financial performance to the planned budget, providing insight into
how well an organization is adhering to its financial goals.
Business
An organization that strives for a profit by providing goods and services desired by its customers.
Business cycle
The regular e conomic pattern of upturns and do wnturns in demand and output within the e conomy
that tends to repeat itself every three to five years.
Business environment analysis
A systematic process that evaluates the internal and external factors impacting a business.
Business etiquette
A type of social and business beha viour that team members (whether at schoo l or work) are expected to
exhibit.
Business information
Collective data related to a c ompany and its operations, including statistic al information, raw analytical
data, customer feedback, and sales numbers.
Business law
Rules, statutes, c odes, and regulations estab lished to pro vide a legal framew ork within which business
may be conducted.
Business participants
People who participate in conducting the work of the business. These alw ays include the employees and
managers, but often include suppliers, customers, and shareholders.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 659

[Page 692]
Business plan
A written document that outlines a c ompany’s go als and e xplains ho w it p lans to achiev e them. It
typically includes details about the business, its products or servic es, target market, marketing strategy ,
operations, and financial projections.
Business risk
The potential for a company to experience financial losses or other challenges that could impact its ability
to achieve its objectives. These risks arise from unc ertainties in the internal and e xternal environment in
which a business operates.
Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
A binding legal document that prote cts the b asic human rights of all Canadians, such as fundamental
freedoms, democratic rights, mobility rights, legal rights, equality rights, and language rights.
Canadian Human Rights Act
A federal law that protects individuals from discrimination in federally regulated workplaces and services
based on race, gender, disability, and other grounds.
Capacity requirements
The maximum number of goods that a f acility can produce over a giv en time under normal w orking
conditions.
Capital budget
A budget that c onsiders the c ompany's long-range p lans and outlines the ne eds for significant c apital
purchases such as real estate, manufacturing equipment, plant expansions, or technology.
Capitalism
An economic system that promotes the creation and ownership of capital and wealth.
Carroll’s pyramid
A w ell-respected resourc e f or situating c orporate social responsibility . In this model, the f ocus is on
managers—not owners—as the principals involved in the company's relationships with its stakeholders.
660 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 693]
Circular economy
An approach that emp hasizes the restoration and regeneration of products, materials and energy that
encourages manuf acturers to design products and business models with durability , rep airability and
recyclability in mind.
Circular flow model
A w ay of depicting ho w money circulates b ack and f orth through the e conomy from househo lds to
businesses in the form of labour and the purchase of goods and services.
Citation style
A style that dictates the inf ormation necessary for a citation and ho w the information is ordered, as well
as punctuation and other formatting conventions.
Coincident indicators
Statistical tools that show the state of the economy today.
Communication skills
The ability to communicate with others, both orally and in writing.
Communism
A political and e conomic system that aims to eliminate class distinction b y sharing w ealth equally and
having the public own the means of production, such as factories and mines.
Comparative advantage
The type of adv antage that e xists when a c ountry can produce a product at a lo wer opportunity c ost
compared to another nation.
Compensation packages
A total reward offering provided to an employee, including salary, benefits (such as health insurance and
retirement plans), bonuses, paid time off, and other perks or incentives.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 661

[Page 694]
Competitor analysis
An assessment of similar brands within the same industry to gain insight into other companies' products,
branding, sales strategies, and marketing approaches.
Compound interest
The interest earne d on both the original amount (the princip al) and an y interest that has already be en
added, which allows money to grow faster over time.
Computer-aided design (CAD)
The use of computer software to create, modify, analyze, or optimize a design.
Computer-aided manufacturing (CAM)
The use of computer software and hardware to control and automate manufacturing processes.
Computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM)
A comprehensive approach to manufacturing where CAD, CAM, and other business and manufacturing
processes are integrated using computer systems.
Conceptual skills
The ability to reason abstractly and analyze complex situations.
Conflicts of interest
Struggles that occur when individuals must choose betw een taking actions that promote their personal
interests over the interests of others.
Conflicts of loyalty
Tensions that arise when individuals in leadership positions prioritize personal gains o ver their
professional obligations, leading to ethical and legal repercussions.
Consensual leaders
Leaders who encourage discussion about issues and then require that all parties involved agree to the final
decision.
662 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 695]
Consultative leaders
Leaders who c onfer with subordinates bef ore making a de cision but retain the final de cision-making
authority.
Consumer price index (CPI)
An index that measures the rate of inflation b y determining pric e changes of a h ypothetical basket of
goods, such as food, housing, clothing, medical care, appliances, automobiles, and so f orth, bought by a
typical household.
Contingency and crisis planning
A plan outlining actions to take when une xpected problems occur, ensuring continuity and minimizing
impact.
Contingent workers
Personnel hired to supplement a company’s permanent workforce.
Controlling
A function of management that ensures that performance does not deviate from standards.
Corporate philanthropy
When a business voluntarily gives money, resources, or time to support charitable causes and community
initiatives.
Corporate social responsibility
A business model b y which c ompanies make a c oncerted effort to operate in w ays that enhanc e rather
than degrade society and the environment.
Corporation
A legally sep arate entity from its o wners, offering limited liability prote ction, the ability to raise c apital
through shares, and continuity beyond the involvement of its founders.
Cost of goods sold
The total cost of the goods that a business has sold.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 663

[Page 696]
Costs
Expenses including rent, salaries, supp lies, transportation, etc. that a c ompany incurs from c reating and
selling goods and services.
Credits
In the double-entry method of accounting, an entry on the right side of an account made to decrease asset
or expense accounts and increase liability, revenue or equity accounts.
Cultural environment
A set of f actors that shape the w ay pe ople interact with each other and their p hysical and social
environment.
CUSMA
A free trade agreement between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, which replaced the NAFTA free
trade agreement.
Customer divisions
An organizational design where the c ompany is structure d around diff erent customer groups or
segments.
Customer rights
The right to safe products, the right to be informed about a product, the right to choose what to buy, and
the right to be heard.
Customer-relationship management
A marketing strategy that focuses on using information about current customers to nurture and maintain
strong relationships with them.
Data mining
The use of techniques like clustering, classification, and predictive modelling to extract valuable patterns
and relationships from large datasets to derive actionable insights.
664 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 697]
Data security
Practices, technologies, and policies to protect sensitive information from breaches, unauthorized access,
and cyberattacks.
Debits
In a double-entry method of accounting, an entry on the left side of an account made to increase an asset
or expense account and decrease a liability, revenue or equity account.
Debt financing
A method of raising c apital by borrowing money that must be rep aid over time, usually with interest. It
does not require giving up a portion of ownership in the company.
Debt ratios
Ratios that look at how much a company has borrowed in order to finance the operations of the business.
The more borrowing, the more risk a c ompany has taken on, and so the less likely it is that new lenders
will approve loan applications.
Decision-making
The action or proc ess of thinking through possib le options and sele cting the one that se ems most
appropriate.
Decision-making skills
The process of defining a problem, analyzing possible solutions, and selecting the best outcome.
Deflation
A period of f alling demand and pric es, usually ac companied b y re duced output and rising
unemployment.
Demand
The quantity of a product that buyers are willing to purchase at various prices.
Democratic leaders
Leaders who encourage discussion about issues and require all parties to vote on the decision.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 665

[Page 698]
Departmentalization
A grouping of specialized jobs into meaningful units.
Digital currencies
Currencies that are only accessible with computers or mobile phones because they only exist in electronic
form.
Diversity
The presence, in an organization or a community, of a wide range of people with different backgrounds,
abilities and attributes, including ethnicity, race, colour, religion, age, gender and sexual orientation.
Divisional organizational structure
A type of organizational structure where a c ompany is divide d into independent divisions that operate
like standalone entities within the larger organization. E ach division has its o wn resources, teams, and
responsibilities.
Double-entry accounting
A system that records every transaction with a debit and c redit in two or more ac counts in a c ompany’s
general ledger.
Dumping
The practice of selling e xported goods belo w the pric e that produc ers would normally charge in their
home markets (and often below the cost of producing the goods).
Economic development
The process through which a region, c ountry, or c ommunity improves the w ell-being of its citizens b y
increasing income, reducing poverty, creating jobs, and expanding access to healthcare and education.
Economic indicator
A statistical tool that provides information on the c ountry's economic performance. There are different
types of indic ators, which are all subje ct to c onsiderable error, so it is un wise to dra w any conclusions
from just one month's data.
666 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 699]
Economic responsibility
The practice of making financial decisions based on a commitment to doing good.
Economics
The study of ho w individuals, businesses, go vernments and nations alloc ate their limite d resources to
satisfy their unlimited wants and needs.
Effectiveness
The ability to produce a desired result.
Efficiency
The ability of a business to ac complish tasks and achiev e objectives using the least possib le amount of
resources while maintaining the desired level of quality and performance.
Efficiency ratios
Ratios that indicate how well a company's assets are being managed.
Embargo
An extreme form of quota that, f or economic or po litical reasons, b ans the import or e xport of c ertain
goods to or from a specific country.
Employability skills
The skills you need to enter, stay in, and progress in the w orld of work, whether you work on your own
or as part of a team.
Employment Equity Act
A Canadian la w that re quires f ederally regulate d emp loyers to take pro active steps to impro ve job
opportunities for women, Indigenous peoples, persons with disabilities, and visible minorities.
Employment-related legislation
Legislation that covers employment standards, human rights, federal and provincial privacy, occupational
health and safety, workers' compensation, and labour regulations.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 667

[Page 700]
Empowerment
The process of giving employees increased autonomy and discretion to make decisions, as well as control
over the resources needed to implement those decisions.
Enterprise Resource planning (ERP)
A broader, integrate d s ystem that manages and automates a c ompany’s core business proc esses ac ross
multiple dep artments, including financ e, HR, manuf acturing, supp ly chain, sales, and customer
relationship management (CRM).
Equilibrium price
The price point at which the demand and supply curves intersect.
Equity
A process that ensures everyone has access to the same opportunities.
Equity financing
A method of raising capital by selling shares of a company to investors. It carries no repayment obligation
and provides extra working capital that can be used to grow a business, but it does mean sharing profits
and decision-making power with shareholders.
ESG
An ac ronym f or En vironmental, Social, and Go vernance that ref ers to a set of standards use d b y
businesses to evaluate and address their impact on the world, beyond just financial performance.
Ethical dilemmas
Situations in which it is difficult f or an individual to make de cisions, either be cause the right c ourse of
action is unclear or carries some potential negative consequences for the person or people involved.
Ethical issues
Challenging social questions that involve disagreement or uncertainty about what is morally right or fair.
668 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 701]
Ethical lapse
A mistake or error in judgment that produc es a harmful outcome. It is a f ailure to follow proper ethical
principles.
Ethical responsibilities
The responsibility to ensure fair practices and treat customers, employees, and stakeholders with respect.
Ethics
The philosophical discipline concerned with what is morally good and bad, and morally right and wrong.
European Union (EU)
A unique e conomic and po litical union betw een 27 European c ountries that ha ve eliminate d trade
barriers among themselves.
Exchange rate
In the f oreign e xchange market, currencies are bought and so ld like goods in an y other market. The
exchange rate is the pric e of one currenc y expressed in terms of another—it tells y ou how much of one
currency you need to buy a unit of another.
Exporting
The process of selling domestic products to foreign customers.
Extrinsic motivation
When motivation comes from external factors, in other words, a person needs an incentive to be, stay, or
become motivated.
Facility layout
The physical arrangement of resources to ensure a smooth flow of production.
Factors of production
The resources used to create goods and services.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 669

[Page 702]
Fiduciary responsibility
The obligation that managers have to act in the best interests of the company’s stakeholders by protecting
its assets and managing its money honestly and responsibly.
Financial accountant
A professional responsible for preparing and reporting a c ompany’s financial information in accordance
with established accounting standards, such as GAAP or IFRS.
Financial budget
A budget that plans the use of assets and liabilities and results in a projected balance sheet.
Financial controller
An officer of a c ompany responsible for updating financial c ontrols and o verseeing all the ac counting
activities in an organization.
Financial controls
Procedures and po licies that monitor and manage financial resourc es to prev ent errors, fraud, and
optimize allocation.
Financial management
The planning and budgeting of short- and long-term funds f or current and future ne eds. Generally, the
finance department comprises two divisions: accounting and financial management.
Financial manager
The person responsib le f or managing the c ompany’s financial resourc es and ensuring the financial
stability and growth of the organization by optimizing financial performance and minimizing risks.
Financial planning
The ongoing proc ess of managing y our personal financ es in order to me et go als that y ou’ve set f or
yourself or your family.
First-line managers
The management lev el, also ref erred to as customer-f acing or front-line management, c oordinates
670 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 703]
activities, supervises employees, reports to middle managers, and is in volved in day-to-day operations of
an organization.
Fiscal policy
How governments use spending and taxation to influence economic growth, employment, and inflation.
Flextime
A work schedule arrangement that allo ws employees to choose their starting and ending times within a
set range, while still working the required number of hours.
Forecasts
The prediction of rev enue, costs and e xpenses for a spe cific future period. Short-term f orecasts include
predictions for the upcoming year, while long-term forecasts include predictions for a period longer than
one year into the future.
Foreign direct investment (FDI)
The formal establishment of business operations on f oreign soil—the building of f actories, sales offices,
and distribution networks to serve local markets in a nation other than the company’s home country.
Free market economy
An economic system where the la ws of supp ly and demand determine pric es, and the go vernment has
limited or no involvement
Free market system
An economic system that operates according to free competition.
Free-rein leaders
The opposite end of the continuum from the autocratic style is free-rein or laissez-faire (French for “leave
it alone”) leadership. Managers who use this style turn over all authority and control to subordinates.
FTSE4Good Index Series
An inde x designe d to measure the perf ormance of c ompanies demonstrating spe cific Environmental,
Social and Governance (ESG) practices.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 671

[Page 704]
Functional areas in a business
Different dep artments or se ctions that perf orm spe cific tasks, such as human resourc es, operations,
accounting, and finance.
Gantt chart
An easy-to-use graphical tool that helps operations managers determine the status of projects.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)
GAAP (Generally Ac cepted Ac counting Princip les) are standardize d rules and guidelines use d b y
publicly trade d c ompanies in the U.S. to ensure financial statements are c onsistent, transp arent, and
comparable.
Geographical divisions
An organizational design where a company is structured by geographical location, enabling it to respond
to customers more effectively based on their location.
Globalization
The process of increasing economic and social integration betw een countries, and the inc reased flow of
goods, services, and people across borders.
Goods
Tangible items manufactured and sold by a business.
GPA score (Grade Point Average)
A cumulation of the grades across the courses throughout your program.
Greenwashing
The practice of misleading consumers or stakeholders into believing that a company, product, or initiative
is more environmentally friendly or sustainable than it actually is.
Gross domestic product (GDP)
The market value of all goods and services produced by the economy in a given year.
672 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 705]
Gross national product (GNP)
The v alue of all products and servic es produc ed b y citizens of a c ountry, both domestic ally and
internationally, minus income earned by foreign residents.
Gross profit
The difference between sales revenue and cost of goods sold. Also known as gross margin.
Health and safety
The policies, procedures, and practic es that businesses put in p lace to prote ct employees from injury ,
illness, and other risks while on the job.
HR forecasting
The process of predicting how a company's staffing needs change with time, so that it can remain prepared
to operate successfully.
Human resource management
The process of hiring, developing, motivating, and evaluating employees to achieve organizational goals.
Human resources (HR)
An organizational function that is about searching for, selecting, training, and maintaining workers.
IDEA
An acronym for inclusion, div ersity, equity, and ac cessibility. Collectively, a set of practic es that aim to
ensure that people from a variety of backgrounds are represented and can thrive.
Importing
The process of buying products overseas and reselling them in one’s own country.
Inclusion
Accounting f or diff erences among individuals and groups when designing something (e.g., po licy,
program, curriculum, buildings, shared space) to avoid creating barriers.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 673

[Page 706]
Inclusive workforce
A workforce that includes emp loyees who are underrepresente d in the w orkplace according to sex, race,
or some other characteristic.
Income statement
A financial report that sho ws revenues, expenses, and whether or not a profit w as made o ver a spe cific
period of time.
Industry life cycle
The industry life cycle describes the four stages an industry goes through—expansion, peak, contraction,
and trough. Understanding these stages helps businesses make inf ormed de cisions about in vestment,
innovation, and growth.
Inflation
A sustained rise in the average prices of goods within an economy. It can also be explained as the fall in the
purchasing power of money, since it is usual for wages to move ahead at least as fast as the price level.
Information management
The collection, storage, organization, and distribution of inf ormation to optimize business operations
and decision-making.
Information risk management
Policies, procedures, and technology that an organization adopts to reduce the threats, vulnerabilities, and
consequences that could arise if data is not protected
Information sharing
The proc ess of e xchanging data, kno wledge, or insights betw een teams or organizations. Eff ective
information sharing enhances collaboration and decision-making within and between organizations.
Information technology
The organizational function that aims to understand the inf ormation and data needs of the company in
terms of obtaining, analyzing, and protecting information.
674 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 707]
Initial screening
The stage in the sele ction process where a c andidate completes an app lication form and/or submits a
résumé, and has a brief interview of 30 minutes or less.
Inputs
The elements which go into producing a good or servic e, such as labour, ra w materials, c apital, land,
entrepreneurship, etc.
Internal business environment
Elements within an organization that influence its operations and decision-making including factors like
the company’s culture, management practices, employees, and work processes.
International contract manufacturing
A f orm of outsourcing in which c ompanies manuf acture their products in another c ountry to take
advantage of lower labour costs.
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
A set of glob al ac counting standards that pro vide guidelines f or ho w c ompanies should prep are and
present their financial statements. IFRS is used in over 140 countries, including Canada.
International franchise agreement
An agreement under which a company (the franchiser) grants a foreign company (the franchisee) the right
to use its brand name and to sell its products or servic es. The franchisee is responsible for all operations
but agrees to operate ac cording to a business model estab lished by the franchiser. The franchise e pays
royalties to the franchiser. In turn, the franchiser usually provides advertising, training, and new-product
assistance.
International licensing agreement
An agreement that allows a foreign company (the licensee) to sell the products of a producer (the licensor)
or to use its intellectual property (such as patents, trademarks, copyrights) in exchange for what is known
as royalty fees.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 675

[Page 708]
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
An international organization c omposed of 191 member c ountries that is go verned by and accountable
to its members and plays a central role in the global financial system.
Interpersonal skills
The relational skills necessary to get along with and motivate other people. Most essential for managers in
mid-level positions.
Intrinsic motivation
When motivation comes from within, in other w ords, a person has it within themselv es to be, sta y, or
become motivated.
Inventory control
The task of striking a b alance between two threats to productivity: not enough in ventory and c arrying
too much inventory.
Investing
Putting money into something—like shares, real estate, or a business—with the go al of earning more
money over time.
Involuntary termination
A situation where an emp loyer ends an employee's employment without the employee's consent. Such a
situation can happen f or a number of reasons, including poor perf ormance, unprofessional behaviour,
policy violations, economic factors, and organizational changes.
Job analysis
An analysis that identifies the tasks, responsibilities, and skills that a job entails, as w ell as the knowledge
and abilities needed to perform it.
Job description
A representation of the duties and responsibilities of a position.
676 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 709]
Job enlargement
The practice of enhancing a job by adding tasks at similar skill levels.
Job enrichment
The practice of adding tasks that increase both responsibility and opportunity for growth.
Job rotation
A practice that allows employees to rotate from one job to another on a s ystematic basis, often, but not
necessarily, cycling back to their original tasks.
Job sharing
An arrangement whereby two people share one full-time position, splitting the salary and benefits of the
position as each handles half the job.
Job specialization
The division of activities into clusters of related tasks that can be handled by certain individuals or groups.
Job specification
Description of the qualifications—skills, knowledge, and abilities— needed to perform the job.
Joint venture
When two or more companies form a new, independent legal entity to pursue a specific business objective
or project. The companies share ownership, profits, risks, and governance in the newly created entity.
Just-in-time (JIT) production:
An in ventory c ontrol method where the manuf acturer arranges f or materials to arriv e at production
facilities just in time to enter the manufacturing process.
Labelling
Information on a product’s packaging that is used to identify the product and provide important details
such as its contents, manufacturer, origin, usage instructions, and safety warnings.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 677

[Page 710]
Lagging indicators
Statistical tools that show the health of the economy in the recent past.
Law of supply and demand
An economic theory that explains how the relationship betw een supply and demand determines pric es.
When supply is greater than demand, prices fall, and prices rise when demand is greater than supply.
Leadership style
The relatively consistent way that individuals in leadership positions attempt to influenc e the behaviour
of others.
Leading
Providing focus and direction to others and motivating them to achieve organizational goals.
Leading indicators
Statistical tools that offer a prediction of future events.
Learning styles
The different ways by which a person takes in, understands, expresses and remembers information. There
are four predominant learning styles: Visual, Auditory, Read/Write, and Kinaesthetic.
Legal compliance
Conducting a business within the boundaries of all the legal regulations of a particular industry.
Legal responsibility
The responsibility to comply with laws and regulations at the local, national, and international levels.
Liabilities
Debts that a business owes to outside individuals or organizations.
Lifelong learning
The ongoing, v oluntary, and self-motiv ated pursuit of kno wledge f or either personal or prof essional
reasons.
678 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 711]
Liquidity ratios
Ratios that sho w how well-positioned a c ompany is to p ay its bills in the near term. Liquidity ref ers to
how quickly an asset c an be turned into cash. For example, shares of stock are substantially more liquid
than a building or a machine.
Loss
That which occurs when costs and expenditures are greater than revenue.
M-1 money
The narro west measure of money that includes the most liquid f orms of money , such as c ash and
chequing account funds that are spent immediately.
M-2 money
A measure of money that includes ev erything in M-1 plus near-cash items invested for the short term —
savings accounts, time deposits and money market mutual funds.
Macro-environment
The broader conditions of an economy as opposed to specific markets.
Macroeconomics
A branch of economics that looks at the decisions of countries and governments.
Make-to-order
The process of designing products to meet the needs of the buyers who order them.
Managerial accounting
The proc ess of identifying, measuring, analyzing, and interpreting financial inf ormation f or use
by internal management to plan, control, and make decisions within an organization.
Managers
Those who are considered to be a company's designated leaders according to its organizational structure.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 679

[Page 712]
Market segments
Groups of potential customers with common demographic, geographic, behavioural, and psychographic
characteristics that influence their buying decisions.
Marketing
The activity, set of institutions, and proc esses for creating, communicating, delivering, and e xchanging
offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.
Marketing concept
A business p hilosophy where the organization's go als are achiev ed by identifying customer ne eds and
delivering value more effectively than its competitors.
Marketing mix
The combination of four factors, known as the "4 Ps" of marketing. The 4 Ps are designe d to serve the
target market and include product, price, promotion, and place.
Marketing strategy
A plan used by organizations to determine a target market and then develop a marketing mix to meet the
needs of that market.
Mass customization
An approach that combines the advantages of make-to-order processes with mass production. It requires
the manuf acturer to find pre cisely what the customer w ants and then manuf acture the goods, using
efficient production methods to reduce costs.
Mass production
The practice of producing high volumes of identical goods at a cost low enough to price them for a large
numbers of customers. Also called make-to-stock.
Material requirements planning (MRP)
A software tool that relies on sales forecasts and ordering lead times for materials to calculate the quantity
of each part needed for production and determine when it should be ordered or made.
680 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 713]
Micro-environment
Groups and organizations that have a direct relationship with the business.
Microeconomics
A branch of economics that focuses on the study of individuals and business decisions.
Middle-level managers
The management lev el responsible for allocating resources, overseeing first-line managers, reporting to
top-level managers and developing and implementing activities.
Minimum wage
The lo west hourly p ay rate that emp loyers are legally allo wed to p ay their w orkers, as set b y the
government. It’s designed to help ensure that employees earn a basic standard of living for their work.
Mixed economy
An economic system where some resourc es are p lanned for by the go vernment, while citizens c ontrol
others.
Mixed market
An e conomic s ystem b lending elements of a market e conomy with elements of a p lanned e conomy,
markets with state interventionism, or private enterprise with public enterprise.
Monetary policy
Policy concerned with the supp ly of money , rates of interest, e xchange rates and the amount of c redit
available in order to control the level of spending within the economy.
Money
Anything that is acceptable as payment for goods and services.
Monopolistic competition
Competition that oc curs when an industry has man y firms offering products that are similar but not
identical. Unlike a monopo ly, these firms ha ve little po wer to curtail supp ly or raise pric es to inc rease
profits.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 681

[Page 714]
Monopoly
A market structure characterized by a single seller, selling a unique product in the market where the seller
faces no competition, as the seller is the sole provider of the goods with no close substitute.
Multinational corporation (MNC)
A company that operates in many countries.
National debt
The liabilities of the go vernment se ctor. Historic ally, go vernment deficits oc cur more often than
surpluses since the government typically spends more than it takes in.
National deficit
A deficit that occurs when a government spends more money than it receives in revenue over a period of
time.
Net income
The difference between gross profit and operating expenses. It is the proverbial “bottom line.”
Non-profit or voluntary sector
Non-governmental, non-profit organizations that re ceive support from individual citizens, the
government, and businesses.
Not-for-profit organization
An organization that exists to achieve some goal other than gaining profit.
Oligopoly
A market in which there are only a f ew sellers and where each seller supp lies a large portion of all the
products sold in the marketplace.
Operating budget
A budget that helps plan future revenue and expenses and results in a projected income statement.
682 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 715]
Operating expenses
The costs of operating a business, except for the costs of things that were sold.
Operational planning
Short-term planning mostly undertaken by first-level managers over the course of one year that is designed
to achieve organization-wide or sub-unit goals.
Operations
The organizational function that is focused on producing the goods and/or services of the business.
Operations management
A vital component of any business, encompassing the practices, techniques, and tools that organizations
use to produce and deliver goods and services efficiently and effectively.
Operations managers
Those who manage the proc ess that transf orms inputs into outputs. Their responsibilities include
production planning, production control, and quality control.
Opportunity cost
That which must be given up to obtain something that is desired.
Organizational charts
Charts used by businesses to depict the reporting structure within the organization.
Organizing
The second management function. It is the proc ess of c oordinating and alloc ating a firm's resourc es in
order to carry out its plans.
Orientation program
Training that introduces a new employee to the company's people, policies, and procedures.
Outputs
The finished product that comes from a production process.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 683

[Page 716]
Outsourcing
The practic e of c ontracting out c ertain business functions, tasks, or proc esses to e xternal v endors or
service providers, rather than handling them in-house.
Owner’s equity
The owner's investment in a business.
Packaging
The container or wrapper for a product that is designed to attract a customer's attention.
Participative leaders
Leaders who share de cision making with group members and enc ourage discussion of issues and
alternatives; includes leaders with democratic, consensual, and consultative styles.
Partnership
A business o wned and operate d b y tw o or more individuals who share management responsibilities,
profits, and liabilities according to a partnership agreement.
Partnership agreement
An agreement that clearly defines each p artner’s rights and responsibilities, thereb y reducing the risk of
disputes between partners.
Perceived risks
Risks b ased on f eelings, f ears, or assumptions that lack c oncrete evidenc e, often resulting from
misinformation, cognitive biases, or heightened awareness.
Perfect competition
The type of competition that occurs when many consumers buy a standardized product from numerous
small businesses. Because no seller is big enough or influential enough to affect the price, sellers and buyers
accept the going price.
Performance appraisals
Conducted on a semiannual or annual basis to discuss and evaluate employees’ work performance.
684 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 717]
Personal budget
A plan to track your income and spending to help you manage money, avoid debt, and save for goals.
Personal finance
The application of financial principles to the monetary decisions that you make, either for your individual
benefit or for that of your family.
Personal selling
One-on-one communication with customers or potential customers.
PERT charts
Charts designed to plot the activities required to produce a product, specify the time required to perform
each activity in the process, and organize activities in the most efficient sequence.
PEST Analysis
An e xternal en vironment sc an, whereb y an organization c ollects and analyzes data on the po litical,
economic, social, and te chnological aspe cts of the business en vironment in which the organization
operates.
Philanthropic responsibility
A business's c ommitment to impro ving society through charitab le activities, c ommunity support, and
social initiatives.
Place
The third of the "4Ps" of marketing refers to where and how a company sells its products to consumers.
Planned economy
A s ystem where the state determines production lev els and regulates pric es. In a c entrally p lanned
economy, the state uses adv anced p lanning me chanisms to determine production lev els, rather than
supply and demand.
Planned system
An economic system in which the elements of an economy (such as labour, capital, and natural resources)
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 685

[Page 718]
are subject to government control and regulation designe d to achieve the objectives of a c omprehensive
plan of economic development.
Planning
The function of management that in volves setting obje ctives and determining a c ourse of action f or
achieving those objectives.
Price
The only element of the marketing mix that directly generates revenue for a company.
Price stability
A period of time when pric es are at a relatively stable level, the economy doesn't experience long periods
of inflation or deflation, and the value of money is sustained over time.
Private sector
Goods and services produced and delivered by private individuals or groups as a means of enterprise f or
profit.
Process divisions
An organizational design where the c ompany is structure d around the proc esses ne eded to c reate a
product or service.
Producer price index (PPI)
The inde x that tracks the a verage change in pric es at the who lesale lev el (e.g., ra w materials, product
components that require further processing, and finished goods sold to retailers).
Product
The first ‘P” of the marketing mix refers to both products and services.
Product life cycle
A theoretical model describing a product's sales and profits over the course of its lifetime.
686 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 719]
Production
The process of transforming inputs (such as labour, c apital, and raw materials) into outputs (goods and
services) that a company wishes to sell.
Production planning
The process of aligning production sche dules with demand forecasts, resource availability, and capacity,
while coordinating with key departments to ensure efficient and continuous operations.
Productivity
The efficiency with which goods and services are produced.
Professionalism
A broad concept that includes a person's attitude, appearance, work ethic, and conduct.
Profit
The money a company has left over after paying all its costs.
Profitability ratios
Ratios that indicate how much profit is made relativ e to the amount in vested (return on investment) or
the amount sold (return on sales).
Promotional mix
The means by which a company communicates with its customers, which can include advertising, social
media, email marketing, personal selling, sales promotion, public relations, and more.
Public relations (PR)
The practice of managing how others see and feel about a person, brand, or company.
Public sector
Goods and services produced, delivered, and allocated by the government and public sector organizations
(publicly controlled government business enterprises).
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 687

[Page 720]
Purchasing
The process of acquiring the materials and services to be used in production (also called procurement).
Quality
The degre e to which a product or servic e me ets or e xceeds customer e xpectations and adheres to
established standards or specifications.
Quality of life
The general level of human happiness b ased on factors including life expectancy, educational standards,
health, sanitation, and leisure time.
Quota
Limitations on the quantity of a good that can be imported into a country over a period of time.
Real risks
Risks b acked b y data, evidenc e, or historic al trends that are measurab le and often re quire pro active
mitigation.
Recruiting
The proc ess of identifying suitab le c andidates and enc ouraging them to app ly f or openings in the
organization.
References
People who will attest to your skills and abilities usually former or current employers.
Relationship-building roles
Roles that help team members understand the p art they play in a team, support them in their ro les, and
maintain or improve group cohesiveness.
Revenue
The money a company receives by providing services or selling goods to customers.
688 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 721]
Risk
The potential to lose time and money or otherwise not be able to accomplish an organization's goals.
Risk management
The structure d proc ess of identifying potential threats, ev aluating their likelihood and imp act, and
developing strategies to minimize or eliminate their adverse effects.
Risk tolerance
In a business context, the degree of uncertainty and potential loss that an organization is willing to accept
to achieve its objectives.
Scarcity
A key c oncept of e conomics, it oc curs when the demand f or a good or servic e is greater than the
availability of the good or service.
Secured loans
Loans that involve some type of collateral. Also known as secured credit.
Selection interview
An in-depth discussion with a c andidate about their work experience, skills and abilities, e ducation, and
career interests.
Selection process
The process of determining which people in the applicant pool possess the qualifications necessary to be
successful on the job.
Services
Intangible offerings of a business that can't be held, touched, or stored
SERVQUAL model
A model c ommonly use d in servic e industries to measure quality ac ross fiv e dimensions: reliability ,
responsiveness, assuranc e, emp athy, and tangib les, allo wing businesses to identify spe cific areas where
they can improve to meet or exceed customer expectations.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 689

[Page 722]
Sexual harassment
Conduct that occurs when an employee makes “unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favours,
and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature” to another employee in return for employment,
training, or promotion.
Site selection
The process of measuring the needs of a new project against the merits of potential locations.
Situational leadership
Selecting a leadership style b ased on the maturity and c ompetency level of those who will c omplete the
task.
SMART goals
An ac ronym use d to guide eff ective go al setting, where go als are Spe cific, M easurable, Attainab le,
Relevant, and Time-Based.
Social media marketing
The practice of including social media as part of a company’s marketing program.
Socialism
An economic and political system where the means of production are o wned by the public or the state,
rather than private individuals. It's based on the idea that share d ownership of resources leads to a more
equitable society.
Sole proprietorship
A simple and informal business structure that is easy to establish, making it the most common choice for
new entrepreneurs.
Span of Control
The total number of direct subordinates that a manager can control or manage.
690 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 723]
SQ4R reading system
A reading system designed to help you study your textbook and apply reading and notetaking skills. The
letters in SQ4R stand for five steps: survey, question, read, reflect, recite, and review.
Stakeholders
Those affected by the business's operations and its de cisions. Examples include shareho lders, investors,
the community, customers, competitors, and governmental agencies.
Standard of living
The level of comfort that people in a particular class or country have is measured by the output of goods
and services that people can buy with their money.
Statement of cash flows
A financial report that sho ws how much c ash is c oming in and going out of a business o ver a spe cific
period of time.
Statistical process control (SPC)
The use of statistical techniques to control a process or production method.
Strategic alliance
An agreement between two companies (or a company and a nation) to pool resources in order to achieve
business goals that benefit both partners.
Strategic HR plan
The steps that an organization takes to ensure that it has the right number of emp loyees with the right
skills in the right places at the right times.
Strategic marketing planning
The practic e of setting go als and obje ctives, analyzing internal and e xternal business f actors, product
planning, implementation, and tracking progress.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 691

[Page 724]
Strategic planning
The analysis of c ompetitive opportunities and threats, as w ell as the strengths and w eaknesses of the
organization to determine how to position the organization to compete effectively in its environment.
Stress
A physical, mental, and emotional response to a difficult event.
Supply
The quantity of a product that sellers are willing to sell at various prices.
Supply chain
The netw ork of individuals, organizations, resourc es, activities, and te chnologies in volved in the
production and distribution of a product or service.
Supply chain management (SCM)
The monitoring and optimization of the production and distribution of a c ompany’s products and
services.
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
A set of 17 go als set out by the United Nations that aim to achiev e peace and prosperity for people and
the planet.
SWOT analysis
An e xamination of the internal and e xternal f actors that imp act the organization and its strategies.
Generally, the internal f actors are strengths and w eaknesses; the e xternal factors are opportunities and
threats.
Tactical planning
Intermediate-range planning mostly undertaken by middle-level managers over the course of one to three
years that is designed to develop relatively concrete and specific means to implement the strategic plan.
692 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 725]
Target market
A group of c onsumers, with similar ne eds and w ants, likeliest to buy a c ompany's product or servic e,
toward which a firm directs its marketing efforts.
Tariffs
Taxes on imports.
Task-facilitating roles
Roles that help a team accomplish its goals.
Team
A group of people with certain skills who share a common purpose, approach, and performance goals.
Team cohesion
The strength and extent of interpersonal connection existing among the members of a group.
Team conflict
The breakdown of interpersonal relationships between members of a team.
Technical skills
The skills needed to perform specific tasks.
Telecommuting
The practice of working from home or from some other non-work location.
Time management
The practice of planning and controlling how you use your time to be more productive and efficient.
Time management skills
Techniques that help you plan and organize your time to complete tasks and achieve goals.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 693

[Page 726]
Time value of money
The concept that money available now has greater potential to grow than the same amount received later,
thanks to earning opportunities like interest or investment returns.
Top-level managers
The management lev el responsib le f or setting obje ctives, sc anning the business en vironment, and
planning and making decisions that affect the overall health of the organization.
Total quality management (TQM)
The continual process of dete cting and re ducing or eliminating errors in manuf acturing to streamline
supply chain management, improve the customer experience, and ensure that employees are well-trained.
Trade controls
Policies that restrict free trade by allowing governments to continue to control trade.
Trade surplus
A favourable balance of trade that oc curs when a c ountry sells more products to other c ountries than it
buys from them.
Transformational leadership
A leadership style that motivates and inspires positive change in followers.
Unemployment rate
The percentage of the labour force that is unemployed and actively seeking work.
Utility
A product or servic e's inherent usefulness or ability to satisfy a customer's ne eds and w ants. It is often
measurable and tied directly to functionality.
Value
The customer’s perception of the benefits they re ceive compared to the cost or effort required to obtain
the product.
694 | GLOSSARY OF TERMS

[Page 727]
Visualization
The process of converting data into graphical representations using tools such as Tableau, Power BI, and
Google Charts to make complex datasets easier to understand and interpret.
Voluntary termination
A situation where an employee chooses to leave their job of their own accord, without pressure from their
employer.
Whistleblower
Someone who reports waste, fraud, abuse, corruption, or dangers to public health and safety to someone
who is in a position to rectify the wrongdoing.
Work culture
A shared set of v alues, beliefs and attitudes that guide an organization, refle cted in the w ay a c ompany
treats its customers and employees.
Work-life balance
A balance between one's personal and work life.
World Bank
An international financial institution that pro vides economic assistance to dev eloping and lo w-income
countries.
World Trade Organization (WTO)
An organization that enc ourages global commerce and lower trade barriers, enforces international rules
of trade, and provides a forum for resolving disputes.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS | 695

